from several listing services14 and evaluate the precision of a limited set of listing fields. We compared the values of manually entered listing fields against the associated flyer (considered to be the gold standard). The precision of property type, transaction type, space type, and space size was measured as 97%, 79%, 72%, and 73% respectively. While results are not conclusive, this preliminary evaluation suggests that machine learning could achieve performance on par with the performance of manual data entry.

5

Related Work

A number of studies survey and compare term weighting schemes and feature selection methods for text categorization, for example (Salton and Buckley, 1988; Yang and Pedersen, 1997; Debole and Sebastiani, 2004; Soucy and Mineau, 2005; Lan et al., 2005; Lan et al., 2009). They describe supervised and traditional term weighting schemes. All, however, are only considering the textual information in documents such as the term frequency, the collection frequency, combined with normalization factors, various information theory functions and statistics metrics. A number of term weighting schemes have been suggested for web retrieval and classification that rely on the HTML DOM structure. (Cutler et al., 1997; Cutler et al., 1999; Riboni, 2002; Kwon and Lee, 2000). The idea is that terms appearing in different HTML elements of a document may have different significance in identifying the document (e.g. terms in HTML titles and headings vs HTML body). In our dataset, however, visually salient information does not fall into any distinctive HTML element type. Instead all text is typically presented in div elements whose style characteristics are defined by a number of css descriptors complicated by external css files, css inlining, style inheritance, and browser defaults. Nadeau and Satoshi (2007) present a survey of NER and describe the feature space of NER research. While they mention multi-media NER in the context of video/text processing, all described features/approaches focus only on textual representaDue to data usage restrictions we were unable to collect a larger dataset or reveal the identity of the source listing services.
14

tion. The literature on Information Extraction from HTML resources is dominated by various approaches based on wrapper induction (Kushmerick, 1997; Kushmerick, 2000). Wrapper inductions rely on common HTML structure (based on the HTML DOM) and formatting features to extract structured information from similarly formatted HTML pages. This approach, however, is not applicable to the genres of marketing materials (PDF and HTML) since they typically do not share any common structure that can be used to identify relevant named entities. Laender et al. (2002) present a survey of data extraction techniques and tools from structured or semistructured web resources. Cai et al. (2003) present a vision-based segmentation algorithm of web pages that uses HTML layout features and attempts to partition the page at the semantic level. In (Burget and Rudolfova, 2009) authors propose web-page block classification based on visual features. Yang and Zhang (2001) build a content tree of HTML documents based on visual consistency inferred semantics. Burget (2007) proposes a layout based information extraction from HTML documents and states that this visual approach is more robust than traditional DOM-based methods. Changuel et al.(2009a) describe a system for automatically extracting author information from webpages. They use spatial information based on the depth of the text node in the HTML DOM tree. In (Changuel et al., 2009b) and (Hu et al., 2006), the authors proposed a machine learning method for title extraction and utilize format information such as font size, position, and font weight. In (Zhu et al., 2007) authors use layout information based on font size and weight for NER for automated expense reimbursement. None of the above studies, however, include computed HTML style attributes (as seen in browsers), and as a result are not applicable to the vast majority of web pages which do not rely on HTML layout tags or DOM-structure to describe style.

6

Conclusion

In this study, we generated dataset and features from available commercial real estate flyers and associ-

290

