groundedness. The existence of a discourse relation must be linked or grounded to a discourse connective. More importantly, this applies to not only explicit discourse connectives that occur naturally as part of the text but also to implicit discourse relations where a discourse connective is added by annotators during the annotation process. This is crucial to the work reported here in that it allows us to compare the distribution of the same connective in explicit and implicit discourse relations. In the next subsection, we will explain in detail how we compute the comparison measures and apply them to the selection of explicit discourse connectives that can be used for collecting good weakly labeled data. We use the Gigaword corpus, a large unannotated newswire corpus, to extract and select instances of explicit discourse discourse relations to supplement the manually annotated instances from the PDTB. The Gigaword corpus is used for its large size of 2.9 billion words and its similarity to the Wall Street Journal data from the PDTB. The source of the corpus is drawn from six distinct international sources of English newswire dating from 1994 - 2006. We use this corpus to extract weakly labeled data for the experiment. 2.2 Discourse relation extraction pattern We extract instances of explicit discourse relations from the Gigaword Corpus that have the same patterns as the implicit discourse relations in the PDTB, using simple regular expressions. We first sentencesegment the Gigaword Corpus using the NLTK sentence segmenter (Bird, 2006). We then write a set of rules to prevent some common erroneous cases such as because vs because of from being included. If a discourse connective is a subordinating conjunction, then we use the following pattern:
(Clause 1) (connective) (clause 2). Clause 1 and capitalized clause 2 are then used as Arg1 and Arg2 respectively. If a discourse connective is a coordinating conjunction or discourse adverbial, we use the following pattern: (Sentence 1). (Connective),(clause 2). Sentence 1 and Clause 2 with the first word capitalized are used as Arg1 and Arg2 respectively. Although there are obviously many other syntactic patterns associated with explicit discourse connectives, we use these two patterns because these are the only patterns

that are also observed in the implicit discourse relations. We want to select instances of explicit discourse relations that match the argument patterns of implicit discourse relations as much as possible. As restrictive as this may seem, these two patterns along with the set of rules allow us to extract more than 200,000 relation instances from the Gigaword corpus, so the coverage is not an issue.

2.3

Discourse connective selection and classification criteria

We hypothesize that connectives that are omitted often and in a way that is insensitive to the semantic context are our ideal candidates for extracting good weakly labeled data. We call this type of connectives freely omissible discourse connectives. To search for this class of connectives, we need to characterize connectives by the rate at which they are omitted and by the similarity between their context, in this case their arguments, in explicit and implicit discourse relations. This is possible because implicit discourse connectives are inserted during annotation in the PDTB. For each discourse connective, we can compute omission rate and context differential from annotated explicit and implicit discourse relation instances in the PDTB and use those measures to classify and select discourse connectives.

2.3.1

Omission rate (OR)

We use omission rates (OR) to measure the level of optionality of a discourse connective. The omission rate of a type of discourse connective (DC) is defined as: # occurrences of DC in implicit relations # total occurrences of DC Our intuition is that the discourse connectives that have a high level of omission rate are more suitable as supplemental training data to infer the sense of implicit discourse relations.

2.3.2

Context differential

The omission of a freely omissible discourse connective should also be context-independent. If the omission of a discourse connective leads to a different interpretation of the discourse relation, this means that the explicit and implicit discourse relations bound by this discourse connective are not equivalent, and the explicit discourse relation instance cannot be used to help infer the sense of the implicit discourse relation. Conversely, if the contexts for the discourse connective in explicit and implicit discourse relations do not significantly differ, then the explicit discourse relation instance can be used as weakly labeled data. To capture this intuition, we must quantify the context differential of explicit and implicit discourse relations for each discourse connective. We represent the

801

