Corpus-based discovery of semantic intensity scales
Chaitanya Shivade , Marie-Catherine de Marneffe§ , Eric Fosler-Lussier , Albert M. Lai  Department of Computer Science and Engineering, § Department of Linguistics,  Department of Biomedical Informatics, The Ohio State University, Columbus OH 43210, USA. shivade@cse.ohio-state.edu, mcdm@ling.ohio-state.edu fosler@cse.ohio-state.edu, albert.lai@osumc.edu

Abstract
Gradable terms such as brief, lengthy and extended illustrate varying degrees of a scale and can therefore participate in comparative constructs. Knowing the set of words that can be compared on the same scale and the associated ordering between them (brief < lengthy < extended) is very useful for a variety of lexical semantic tasks. Current techniques to derive such an ordering rely on WordNet to determine which words belong on the same scale and are limited to adjectives. Here we describe an extension to recent work: we investigate a fully automated pipeline to extract gradable terms from a corpus, group them into clusters reflecting the same scale and establish an ordering among them. This methodology reduces the amount of required handcrafted knowledge, and can infer gradability of words independent of their part of speech. Our approach infers an ordering for adjectives with comparable performance to previous work, but also for adverbs with an accuracy of 71%. We find that the technique is useful for inferring such rankings among words across different domains, and present an example using biomedical text.

accurate a measurement is. Thus, one of the characteristics of gradable terms is that they participate in a scale and can be ordered along that scale: for example, good < great < excellent (Kennedy, 2007). Another characteristic is that gradable terms can appear in comparative constructions, e.g., "A is larger than B". Such comparative judgments are a psychological process that precedes judgments of counting, e.g., "A is twice as large as B" (Sapir, 1944). Modern NLP systems face the challenge of interpreting language as close to human perception as possible. Modeling gradable terms as well as their associated meaning and ordering is an important aspect of this challenge. Such information can be very useful for a variety of inference tasks, such as sentiment analysis (Pang and Lee, 2008) and textual inference (Dagan et al., 2006). However, current lexical resources, like WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998), lack annotations capturing the gradability of words. This weakens the notion of similarity: although words such as small and minuscule illustrate varying degrees of size, they are listed as synonyms in WordNet. Recently, there has been a lot of interest in exploring different approaches to derive an ordering among gradable adjectives based on their semantics (Ruppenhofer et al., 2014; Sheinman et al., 2013; Schulam and Fellbaum, 2010). de Melo and Bansal (2013) propose a novel Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP) based approach, publish a gold standard dataset and report the best performance on ordering scalar adjectives on this dataset. However, these approaches are limited in two ways. First, they depend on a manually created resource, such

1

Introduction

Gradability (Sapir, 1944) is a property of words that identifies different degrees of the quality the word denotes. For example, adjectives such as large, huge and gigantic present different degrees of size or volume. Similarly, adverbs such as approximately, almost and roughly present different degrees of how 483

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 483­493, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

