Using Summarization to Discover Argument Facets in Online Idealogical Dialog
Amita Misra, Pranav Anand, Jean Fox Tree, and Marilyn Walker UC Santa Cruz Natural Language and Dialogue Systems Lab 1156 N. High. SOE-3 Santa Cruz, California, 95064, USA amisra2|panand|foxtree|mawalker@ucsc.edu

Abstract
More and more of the information available on the web is dialogic, and a significant portion of it takes place in online forum conversations about current social and political topics. We aim to develop tools to summarize what these conversations are about. What are the CENTRAL PROPOSITIONS associated with different stances on an issue; what are the abstract objects under discussion that are central to a speaker's argument? How can we recognize that two CENTRAL PROPOSITIONS realize the same FACET of the argument? We hypothesize that the CENTRAL PROPOSITIONS are exactly those arguments that people find most salient, and use human summarization as a probe for discovering them. We describe our corpus of human summaries of opinionated dialogs, then show how we can identify similar repeated arguments, and group them into FACETS across many discussions of a topic. We define a new task, ARGUMENT FACET SIMILARITY (AFS), and show that we can predict AFS with a .54 correlation score, versus an ngram system baseline of .39 and a semantic textual similarity system baseline of .45.

PostID:Turn S1:1 Agreed She is ignoring my religious freedom and trying to institute her religion into law. The law that will bar my family from legal protections. It won't protect her marriage but will bar me and my people from from being full citizens. She isn't protecting marriage but perserving her heterosexual privledge. S2:1 How on earth is she impeding on you religious freedom? She isn't trying to take away your right to any religious ceremony. With such a wide-open standard of what constitutes religious freedom that you seem to have, any legislation could be construed as imposing on religious freedom. S1:2 Because it is her religious belief that marriage is between a man and a woman. My religious belief is that marriage is between two people that love each other regardless of sex. She is tying to place her religious belif into law over mine. Who gets hurt here? If my religious belief is put into law she can still marry the person of her choice. If her religious belief gets put into law she can still marry the person of her choice but I do not get to. So I and my people are hurt by codifing her religious belief into law. She is trying to keep gay people out of marriage and thus preserve her heterosexual privledge. S2:2 But by that definition, either one could be viewed as impeding on religious freedom, including your view impeding on hers ! We don't define imposing on religious freedom on the basis of having different ideals. It doesn't effect your religion or religious freedom if you don't get benefits under gay marriages. You can argue in other ways, on other basis, but the idea that not giving gays marriage benefits is imposing on religious freedom is an empty " argument ".

Figure 1: Gay Marriage Dialog-1. soned disputes on important social and political topics, as exemplified by the forum snippets in Figs. 1 and 3. Studying data like this will undoubtedly help us to understand dialogic and informal argumentative language in general. And, indeed, previous work (Abbott et al., 2011; Somasundaran and Wiebe, 2010) has examined the structure of these discussions ­ e.g., the argumentative discourse relation a post bears to its parent (agreeing or disagreeing), or the stance that a person takes on an issue. Our goal here is to develop techniques to recognize the specific arguments and counterarguments people tend to advance, and group them across discussions into the FACETS on which that issue is ar-

1

Introduction

In the wake of the Penn TreeBank, much progress has been achieved in processing the monologic, informational language characteristic of newswire text. But an increasing share of the text data on the web is unlike newswire in a variety of ways: it is dialogic, opinionated, argumentative. And while some of these dialogs may be a little more than flame wars, a significant portion involve contentful, rea430

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 430­440, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

