grammar word order affixation fusion consonants vowels

Munda synthetic head-last, OV, postpositional pre/infixing, suffixing agglutinative stable/assimilative harmonizing/stable

Mon-Khmer analytic head-first, VO, prepositional pre/infixing or isolating fusional shifting/dissimilative reducing/diphthongizing

Table 1: Typological comparison of the Munda and Mon-Khmer branches of the Austroasiatic languages.
An abridged version of Table 1 of (Donegan and Stampe, 2004).

changes with predictive power, we can understand a much deeper past. A challenging problem with typology-based inference is that the changes of typological features over time are less intuitive than those of lexical features. Regular sound changes have been well known since the time of the Neogrammarians. The binary representations of lexical items commonly used in computational phylogenetics correspond to their their presence and absence. The alternations of each feature value can be straightforwardly interpreted as the birth and death (Le Quesne, 1974) of a lexical item. By contrast, it is difficult to understand how a language switches from SOV to SVO. Practically speaking, since each language is represented by a vector of categorical features, we can easily perform distance-based hierarchical clustering. Still, the extent to which the resultant tree reflects evolutionary history is unclear. Teh et al. (2008) proposed a generative model for hierarchical clustering, which straightforwardly explains evolutionary history. However, features used in their experiments were binarized in a one-versus-rest manner (i.e., expanding a feature with K possible values into K binary features) (Daum´ e III and Campbell, 2007) although the model itself had an ability to handle categorical values. With the independence assumption of binary features, the model was likely to reconstruct ancestors with logically impossible states. Typological studies have shown that dependencies among typological features are not limited to the categorical constraints. For example, objectverb ordering is said to imply adjective-noun ordering (Greenberg, 1963). A natural question arises as to what would happen to adjective-noun ordering if object-verb ordering were altered. While dependencies among feature pairs were discussed in previous

studies (Greenberg, 1978; Dunn et al., 2011), dependencies among more than two features are yet to be exploited. To gain a better insight into typological changes, we take Austroasiatic languages as an example. Table 1 compares some typological features of the Munda and Mon-Khmer branches. Although their genetic relationship was firmly established, they are almost opposite in structure. Their common ancestor is considered to have been Mon-Khmer-like. This indicates that the holistic changes have happened in the Munda branch (Donegan and Stampe, 2004). To generalize from this example, we suggest the following hypotheses: 1. The holistic polarization can be explained by latent components that control dependencies among observable features. 2. Typological changes can occur in a way such that typologically unnatural intermediate states are avoided. To incorporate these hypotheses, we propose continuous space representations of linguistic typology. Specifically, we use an autoencoder (see (Bengio, 2009) for a review) to map each language into the latent space. In analogy with principal component analysis (PCA), each element of the encoded vector is referred to as a component. We combine the autoencoder with a typology evaluator that distinguishes typologically natural languages from other possible combinations of features. Armed with the typology evaluator, we perform phylogenetic inference in the continuous space. The evaluator ensures that inferred ancestors are also typologically natural. The inference procedure is guided by known language families so that each component's stability with respect to evolutionary history can be learned. To evaluate the proposed method, we hide some trees to see how well they are reconstructed.

325

