4

Related Work

Our approach draws on three different strands of related work: (1) argument mining; (2) semantic textual similarity; and (3) dialog summarization, which we discuss and compare with our work below. Argument Mining. The study of the structure of arguments has a long tradition in logic, rhetoric and psychology (Walton et al., 2008; Reed and Rowe, 2004; Walton, 2009; Gilbert, 1997; Jackson and Jacobs, 1980; Madnani et al., 2012). Much of this work has been on formal (legal or political) argumentation, and the small computational literature that has applied the rhetorical categories of this research has likewise focused on formal, monologic text (Feng and Hirst, 2011; Palau and Moens, 2009; Goudas et al., 2014). More recent work (Ghosh et al., 2014) has attempted to apply these theories to dialogic text in online forums. Ghosh et al. label spans in conversations with attacking moves (CALL OUTS ) and their corresponding argumentative TAR GETS in another speaker's utterance, and they attempt to learn these callout-target pairs in a supervised framework. Other work attempts to identify general categories of speech-acts such as disagreements or justifications (Misra and Walker, 2015; Biran and Rambow, 2011). What unites all of the above approaches is an interest in understanding the detailed rheotrical structure of a particular linguistic interaction (monologic or dialogic). Our present work is focused instead on inducing the recurring FACETS in a particular topic domain via weakly supervised learning over several dialogic interactions. Several different threads of recent research on argument mining have strong parallels with this goal (Conrad et al., 2012; Boltuzic and  Snajder, 2014; Hasan and Ng, 2014). Conrad & Wiebe construct an argument mining system on monologic weblog and news data about universal healthcare. One component of their system identifies ARGUING SEGMENTS and the second component labels the segments with the relevant stance-specific ARGUMENT TAGS. They show that distributional similarity features help identify arguments that belong to the same tag set (notably, we did not find distributional similarity helpful for AFS.) Boltuzic & Snajder pursue argument mining on comment streams. Instead of hand-generating argument tags like Conrad & Wiebe, they select short sentential summaries of the key arguments for a 437

given topic from a debate website, and then label comments on the same topic from a different website with the most closely matching summary. The same problem on debate posts is tackled as a "reason classification" problem (Hasan and Ng, 2014), with a probabilistic framework for argument recognition (reason classification) that operates jointly with the related task of stance classification. All of these approaches differ from ours in three respects. First, they all assume a finite set of topicspecific labels that are determined in some form by the researchers themselves. In contrast, we seek to uncover popular facets via clustering the central propositions across the dialogs. After our own initial categorical efforts, we feel that the argument "topics" have such nuance that they resist clear labels or category membership. Instead, we feel that a scale such as AFS is a better fit, both for the diversity of the data itself and for the idea of inducing FACETS bottom up. Second, these approaches assume the labels are dependent on a particular stance towards an issue, whereas our facets are deliberately designed to unify across stance disagreement. Finally, all other approaches in argument mining work from the source text itself. We instead (to our knowledge, for the first time) work from human summaries of dialogs because it is an open question whether the CENTRAL PROPOSITIONS for a dialog are really identifiable as continuous spans of text in the dialog itself. (Indeed, our corpus will allow us to determine how true that assumption is.) Semantic Textual Similarity. There appears to be similarity between FACET induction and aspect learning in sentiment analysis (Brody and Elhadad, 2010), but FACETS are propositional abstract objects, while aspects can usually be described as nouns or properties. Facet induction is more similar to work on STS (Mihalcea et al., 2006; Yeh et al., 2009; Agirre et al., 2012; Han et al., 2013; Jurgens et al., 2014). Calculating similarity is a central aspect of AFS. Our scale and MT task for AFS was inspired by the STS task and definition. In addition, as a baseline we apply an off-the-shelf system that calculates STS (UMBC) and compare it with our own system (Han et al., 2013). In order to avoid asking for judgements for many unrelated arguments (CEN TRAL PROPOSITIONS ), and to make the AFS task more doable for Turkers, we also use UMBC as a filter on pairs of CENTRAL PROPOSITIONS as part of making our HIT. This biases the distribution of

