pronouns are used while an established focus continues. 2. In non-pro-drop languages (English), overt pronouns serve the focus-continuation function. 3. There are "deictic" exceptions to these rules, licensed by environmental salience of the referent and inferable from the meaning of the utterance (final question of the example). Importantly, these continuations and switches of foci occur for the most part at the level of the syntactic clause. This is thus the level at which we model, assigning labels to individual clauses, which will in turn indicate the identity of any dropped subject pronoun in that clause.1 In identifying focus, we remain at the granularity of the "person" attribute (first, second, or third person). This is the most relevant granularity for deictic pronoun resolution, as the intent is to capture the alternation between speakers within that dialogue (first and second person), along with switches of focus to any referents external to the dialogue (third person). 2.2 Translation as annotation Currently, most state-of-the-art machine learning systems for Chinese zero pronoun resolution are supervised, requiring manually resolved pronouns for training. We hypothesize comparable distribution between zero pronouns in a pro-drop language, and overt pronouns in a non-pro-drop language. More specifically, because non-pro-drop languages lack zero pronouns, the discourse functions that are served by zero pronouns in pro-drop languages must in non-pro-drop languages be served by overt pronouns. To be more concrete, the original Mandarin SMS conversation from Figure 1 is reproduced in Table 1, together with a human translation into English. Indeed, we see in the example in Figure 1 that the zero pronouns on the Chinese side correspond to overt pronouns on the English side. For this reaAlthough Mandarin does license dropped object pronouns, we focus in this paper only on subject pronouns, as the syntactic subject is (a) more consistently dropped in Mandarin, and (b) more tightly tied to the notion of focus of conversation that motivates our model; see also a discussion of the centering hierarchy in Chinese (Wang, 2011). Relatedly, we filter out possessive pronouns in subject position, as they do not point to the topical entity represented by the full noun phrase.
1

son we make use of a parallel (Chinese/English) corpus for training of our sequence labeling model, deriving the identities of missing pronouns from the English translation of the Chinese text rather than from coreference relations with antecedents in the Chinese text. Our model thus does not rely on the availability of hand-annotated data for training.

3

Our focus tracking model

Given a Chinese dialogue, our goal is to identify zero pronouns and resolve them either as deictic (first or second person) or non-deictic (third person). We use off-the-shelf tools for the identification of the zero pronouns (described in Section 4.1) and focus on the resolution task. In our implementation, we jointly predict the focus and identify the number of the pronoun that would be used. For instance, when S is speaking about herself, we consider this a "1" label; when S is speaking about her conversation partner, we consider this a "2" label. This numbering corresponds to which pronominal form would be required in English.2 3.1 Supervision via bronze standard data

We obtain "bronze" standard (as opposed to "gold" standard) data by looking at human-produced English translations of Chinese utterances, such as those seen in Table 1. Our label set consists of two properties: the person being referred to (first person, second person or third person), and whether the reference is overt or not (visible or hidden). The "visible" three labels correspond to clauses in which an overt subject pronoun appears on the English side. Chinese clauses bearing this label may have an overt or a zero pronoun subject--if the Chinese side contains a zero pronoun subject, then this label will be used to determine the correct person attribute (first, second, or third) of the unseen pronoun. 1v: Overt English first person pronoun: "I" or "we" 2v: Overt English second person pronoun: "you" 3v: Overt English third person pronoun: "he", "she", "it", "they"
We ignore morphological issues in English dealing with possession and grammatical role, since these are exogenous to the resolution task.
2

496

