Continuous Space Representations of Linguistic Typology and their Application to Phylogenetic Inference
Yugo Murawaki Graduate School of Information Science and Electrical Engineering Kyushu University Fukuoka, Japan murawaki@ait.kyushu-u.ac.jp

Abstract
For phylogenetic inference, linguistic typology is a promising alternative to lexical evidence because it allows us to compare an arbitrary pair of languages. A challenging problem with typology-based phylogenetic inference is that the changes of typological features over time are less intuitive than those of lexical features. In this paper, we work on reconstructing typologically natural ancestors To do this, we leverage dependencies among typological features. We first represent each language by continuous latent components that capture feature dependencies. We then combine them with a typology evaluator that distinguishes typologically natural languages from other possible combinations of features. We perform phylogenetic inference in the continuous space and use the evaluator to ensure the typological naturalness of inferred ancestors. We show that the proposed method reconstructs known language families more accurately than baseline methods. Lastly, assuming the monogenesis hypothesis, we attempt to reconstruct a common ancestor of the world's languages.

this paper, we consider its application to phylogenetic inference. We aim at reconstructing evolutionary trees that illustrate how modern languages have descended from common ancestors. Typological features have two advantages over other linguistic traits. First, they allow us to compare an arbitrary pair of languages. By contrast, historical linguistics has worked on regular sound changes (see (Bouchard-C^ ot´ e et al., 2013) for computational models). Glottochronology and computational phylogenetics make use of the presence and absence of lexical items (Swadesh, 1952; Gray and Atkinson, 2003). All these approaches require that certain sets of cognates, or words with common etymological origins, are shared by the languages in question. For this reason, it is hardly possible to use lexical evidence to search for external relations involving language isolates and tiny language families such as Ainu, Basque, and Japanese. For these languages, typology can be seen as the last hope. The second advantage is that typological features are potentially capable of tracing evolutionary history on the order of 10,000 years because they change far more slowly than lexical traits. A glottochronological study indicates that even if Japanese is genetically related to Korean, they diverged from a common ancestor no earlier than 6,700 years ago (Hattori, 1999). Even the basic vocabulary vanishes so rapidly that after some 6,000 years, the retention rate becomes comparable to chance similarity. By contrast, the word order of Japanese, for example is astonishingly stable. It remains intact from the earliest attested data. Thus we argue that if we manage to develop a statistical model of typological

1

Introduction

Linguistic typology is a cross-linguistic study that classifies the world's languages according to structural properties such as complexity of syllable structure and object-verb ordering. The availability of a large typology database (Haspelmath et al., 2005) makes it possible to take computational approaches to this area of study (Daum´ e III and Campbell, 2007; Georgi et al., 2010; Rama and Kolachina, 2012). In

324
Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 324­334, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

