References
Nguyen Bach, Qin Gao, and Stephan Vogel. 2008. Improving word alignment with language model based confidence scores. In Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation. Ond rej Bojar, Christian Buck, Chris Callison-Burch, Christian Federmann, Barry Haddow, Philipp Koehn, Christof Monz, Matt Post, Radu Soricut, and Lucia Specia. 2013. Findings of the 2013 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation. In Proceedings of the Eighth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation. Peter F. Brown, Vincent J. Della Pietra, Stephen A. Della Pietra, and Robert L. Mercer. 1993. The mathematics of statistical machine translation: parameter estimation. Comput. Linguist., 19:263­311, June. Marine Carpuat, Cyril Goutte, and George Foster. 2014. Linear mixture models for robust machine translation. In Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation. Yin-Wen Chang, Alexander M. Rush, John DeNero, and Michael Collins. 2014. A constrained viterbi relaxation for bidirectional word alignment. In Proceedings of ACL. Colin Cherry and George Foster. 2012. Batch tuning strategies for statistical machine translation. In Proceedings of NAACL HLT. Jonathan H. Clark, Chris Dyer, Alon Lavie, and Noah A. Smith. 2011. Better hypothesis testing for statistical machine translation: Controlling for optimizer instability. In Proceedings of HLT: Short Papers. Hoang Cuong and Khalil Sima'an. 2014a. Latent domain phrase-based models for adaptation. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Hoang Cuong and Khalil Sima'an. 2014b. Latent domain translation models in mix-of-domains haystack. In Proceedings of COLING. John DeNero and Klaus Macherey. 2011. Model-based aligner combination using dual decomposition. In Proceedings of ACL. Michael Denkowski and Alon Lavie. 2011. Meteor 1.3: Automatic metric for reliable optimization and evaluation of machine translation systems. In Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, WMT '11. Vladimir Eidelman, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Philip Resnik. 2012. Topic models for dynamic translation model adaptation. In Proceedings of ACL: Short Papers. George Foster, Cyril Goutte, and Roland Kuhn. 2010. Discriminative instance weighting for domain adaptation in statistical machine translation. In Proceedings of EMNLP.

Alexander Fraser and Daniel Marcu. 2006. Semisupervised training for statistical word alignment. In Proceedings of ACL. Michel Galley and Christopher D. Manning. 2008. A simple and effective hierarchical phrase reordering model. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Kuzman Ganchev, Jo~ ao Grac ¸ a, Jennifer Gillenwater, and Ben Taskar. 2010. Posterior regularization for structured latent variable models. J. Mach. Learn. Res., 11:2001­2049, August. Qin Gao and Stephan Vogel. 2008. Parallel implementations of word alignment tool. In Software Engineering, Testing, and Quality Assurance for Natural Language Processing, SETQA-NLP '08. Qin Gao and Stephan Vogel. 2010. Consensus versus expertise: A case study of word alignment with mechanical turk. In Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Creating Speech and Language Data with Amazon's Mechanical Turk, CSLDAMT '10. Qin Gao, Nguyen Bach, and Stephan Vogel. 2010. A semi-supervised word alignment algorithm with partial manual alignments. In Proceedings of the Joint Fifth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation and MetricsMATR, WMT '10. Qin Gao, Will Lewis, Chris Quirk, and Mei-Yuh Hwang. 2011. Incremental training and intentional over-fitting of word alignment. In Proceedings of MT Summit XIII. Joao Graca, Joana Paulo Pardal, Luisa Coheur, and Diamantino Caseiro. 2008. Building a golden collection of parallel multi-language word alignment. In Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC'08). Joao Graca, Kuzman Ganchev, and Ben Taskar. 2010. Learning tractable word alignment models with complex constraints. Comput. Linguist., 36(3):481­504. Eva Hasler, Phil Blunsom, Philipp Koehn, and Barry Haddow. 2014. Dynamic topic adaptation for phrasebased mt. In Proceedings of EACL. Yuening Hu, Ke Zhai, Vladimir Eidelman, and Jordan Boyd-Graber. 2014. Polylingual tree-based topic models for translation domain adaptation. In Proceedings of ACL. Katrin Kirchhoff and Jeff Bilmes. 2014. Submodularity for data selection in machine translation. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Philipp Koehn, Franz Josef Och, and Daniel Marcu. 2003. Statistical phrase-based translation. In Proceedings of NAACL. Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, Chris Callison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi, Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran, Richard Zens, Chris Dyer, Ond rej Bojar, Alexandra Constantin, and Evan Herbst. 2007. Moses: Open source

407

