Parallel/comparable corpora are useful sources of highly accurate paraphrases. However, for most languages, only small paraphrase lexicons can be created due to the limited availability of such corpora. 2.1.3 Combination of Multiple Corpora Unlike the above methods, which used only a single type of corpus as sources of paraphrases, Fujita et al. (2012) used both bilingual parallel and monolingual corpora as sources. In that method, paraphrase pairs, e.g., (3a), are first acquired from a bilingual parallel corpus using the bilingual pivoting method and several heuristic filters for drastic noise reduction. Second, each paraphrase pair is generalized into a paraphrase pattern2 , e.g., (3b). Finally, new pairs, e.g., (3c), are extracted from a monolingual corpus using the patterns. (3) a. amendment of regulation  amending regulation b. amendment of X  amending X c. amendment of documents  amending documents Using that method, they were able to expand the seed lexicon by a large multiple (15 to 40 times), and the new paraphrase pairs were of reasonably good quality. However, they introduced variables only for identical word forms shared by both sides of each pair and left corresponding pairs of lexical variants, e.g., ("amendment", "amending") in (3a), untouched. 2.2 Dealing with Lexical Variants In this study, the term lexical variants covers, at least, the following three types of word groups. Lexical derivations: different words that share the same stem and a large part of their meaning, e.g., {"develop", "developer", "development", . . .}. Words in such a group can have different parts-of-speech. Morphological variants: different surface forms of the same word, e.g., {"amend", "amends", "amending", . . .}. These are derived based on processes such as inflection and conjugation. Orthographic variants: different spellings of the same inflectional/conjugation form of the
If a constituency parser is available for the language of interest, one can learn syntax-based patterns during the bilingual pivoting process (Ganitkevitch et al., 2011).
2

same word, e.g., {"color", "colour"} and {"authorize", "authorise"}. Several syntactic and semantic theories, such as transformational grammar (Harris, 1957) and Meaning-Text Theory (Mel' cuk and Polgu` ere, 1987), propose a representation of paraphrases that involve alternations of lexical variants. Jacquemin (1999) and Fujita et al. (2007) addressed this type of paraphrase using manually described syntactic transformation patterns in combination with dictionaries of lexical variants. Catvar (Habash and Dorr, 2003) is a comprehensive lexical derivation database for English. WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) also contains information of that kind and is currently available for various languages. Despite its high accuracy, manual creation of rich lexical resources requires a large human effort. Gaussier (1999) and Fujita et al. (2007) extracted groups of lexical derivations from a list of headwords of dictionaries through mining affix patterns. This approach significantly reduces human effort, maintaining reasonable accuracy, but the coverage is still limited because of the reliance on manually compiled dictionaries.

3 Proposed Method
This study is the first attempt to exploit various types of lexical variants for acquiring paraphrases in a completely empirical way. Given a seed paraphrase lexicon (SSeed ) our method (henceforth LEXVAR) expands it in two steps (see also Figure 1). Step 1. Learning paraphrase patterns: From SSeed , we learn a set of paraphrase patterns, generalizing various types of lexical variants in addition to identical word forms. Step 2. Harvesting new paraphrase pairs: Using the learned paraphrase patterns, we harvest a set of new paraphrase pairs (SLV ) from monolingual corpora. LEXVAR subsumes Fujita et al. (2012)'s method explained in Section 2.1.3 (henceforth IDENT ), and its output SLV always subsumes IDENT 's output (SID ). As LEXVAR and IDENT have the effect of expanding pre-existing paraphrase lexicons, they can be used as a complement to the other methods for acquiring paraphrases, provided they produce a

632

