Moontae Lee and David Mimno. 2014. Low-dimensional embeddings for interpretable anchor-based topic inference. In Proceedings of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Aaron Q Li, Amr Ahmed, Sujith Ravi, and Alexander J Smola. 2014. Reducing the sampling complexity of topic models. In Proceedings of the 20th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 891­900. ACM. David Newman, Jey Han Lau, Karl Grieser, and Timothy Baldwin. 2010. Automatic evaluation of topic coherence. In Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Viet-An Nguyen, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Philip Resnik. 2013. Lexical and hierarchical topic regression. In Proceedings of Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. Thang Nguyen, Yuening Hu, and Jordan Boyd-Graber. 2014a. Anchors regularized: Adding robustness and extensibility to scalable topic-modeling algorithms. In Proceedings of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Viet-An Nguyen, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Philip Resnik. 2014b. Sometimes average is best: The importance of averaging for prediction using MCMC inference in topic modeling. In Proceedings of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Michael Paul and Roxana Girju. 2010. A twodimensional topic-aspect model for discovering multifaceted topics. In Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. J. R. Quinlan. 1986. Induction of decision trees. 1(1):81­ 106, March. Daniel Ramage, Susan T. Dumais, and Daniel J. Liebling. 2010. Characterizing microblogs with topic models. In International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media. Timothy N. Rubin, America Chambers, Padhraic Smyth, and Mark Steyvers. 2012. Statistical topic models for multi-label document classification. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 88(1-2):157­208, July. Gerard Salton. 1968. Automatic Information Organization and Retrieval. McGraw Hill Text. Asad B. Sayeed, Jordan Boyd-Graber, Bryan Rusk, and Amy Weinberg. 2012. Grammatical structures for word-level sentiment detection. In North American Association of Computational Linguistics. Alexander Smola and Shravan Narayanamurthy. 2010. An architecture for parallel topic models. International Conference on Very Large Databases, 3(1-2):703­710. Richard Socher, Jeffrey Pennington, Eric H. Huang, Andrew Y. Ng, and Christopher D. Manning. 2011. Semisupervised recursive autoencoders for predicting senti-

ment distributions. In Proceedings of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Ivan Titov and Ryan McDonald. 2008. A joint model of text and aspect ratings for sentiment summarization. In Proceedings of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Yining Wang and Jun Zhu. 2014. Spectral methods for supervised topic models. In Proceedings of Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. Chong Wang, David Blei, and Li Fei-Fei. 2009. Simultaneous image classification and annotation. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. Hongning Wang, Yue Lu, and Chengxiang Zhai. 2010. Latent aspect rating analysis on review text data: a rating regression approach. In Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. Limin Yao, David Mimno, and Andrew McCallum. 2009. Efficient methods for topic model inference on streaming document collections. In Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. Ke Zhai, Jordan Boyd-Graber, Nima Asadi, and Mohamad Alkhouja. 2012. Mr. LDA: A flexible large scale topic modeling package using variational inference in mapreduce. In Proceedings of World Wide Web Conference. Ke Zhai, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Shay B. Cohen. 2014. Online adaptor grammars with hybrid inference. Jun Zhu, Amr Ahmed, and Eric P. Xing. 2009. MedLDA: maximum margin supervised topic models for regression and classification. In Proceedings of the International Conference of Machine Learning. Jun Zhu, Xun Zheng, Li Zhou, and Bo Zhang. 2013. Scalable inference in max-margin topic models. In Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining.

755

