the training set to having a much larger set of more similar pairs, which has been a problem for previous  work (Boltuzic and Snajder, 2014), where the vast majority of pairs that were labelled were unrelated. However the AFS task is clearly different than STS, partly because the data is dialogic and partly because it is argumentative. Our results show that we can improve on STS systems for the AFS task. Dialog Summarization. Much previous work on dialog summarization focused on extracting phenomena specific to meetings, such as action items or decisions (Murray et al., 2006; Hsueh and Moore, 2008; Whittaker et al., 2012; Janin et al., 2004; Carletta, 2007). Other approaches, like our work, use semantic similarity metrics to identify the most central or important utterances of a spoken dialog (Gurevych and Strube, 2004), but do not attempt to find the FACETS of a set of arguments across multiple dialogs. Another parallel may exist between work on nuclearity in RST and its use in summarization (Marcu, 1999). However our notion of a CENTRAL PROPOSITION is different than nuclearity in RST, since FACETS are derived from CEN TRAL PROPOSITIONS that rise to the top of the pyramid across summarizers, and then (via AFS) across many dialogs on a topic, while RST nuclearity is only defined for a span of text by a single speaker. Other work examines how social phenomena affect summarization, such as a study of how the politeness level in computer-generated dialogs impacted summaries (Roman et al., 2006). Emotion naturally occurs in the IAC, and summarizers' orientation to emotion is intriguing. Emotional information has been observed even in summaries of professional chats discussing technology (Zhou and Hovy, 2005). However the instructions to our Pyramid annotators were to not include information of this type in the pyramids. We are currently collecting an additional summary corpus using a method that we expect to result in more evaluative and emotional assessments in summaries.

into the important FACETS of an argument across many different dialogs. Importantly, we do not attempt to enumerate the possible FACETS for an argument in advance, believing that bottom-up discovery of FACETS is a better fit to the problem. This paper contributes to the current state of knowledge in three ways: (1) we collected summaries of spontaneously-produced written dialog of high social and political importance (available from
TRAL PROPOSITIONS

http://nlds.soe.ucsc.edu/summarycorpus).

5

Conclusion

This paper presents a method and results for extracting FACETS of a topic, across multiple informal arguments on the same topic. We first use human summarization of dialogs as a probe to determine the CENTRAL PROPOSITIONS of each dialog. Then we use clustering in combination with measures of SEMANTIC SIMILARITY to group the CEN 438

(2) we proposed a novel application of the pyramid summarization scheme to the task of FACET induction; and (3) we introduce a new task of ARGUMENT FACET SIMILARITY (AFS) aimed at identifying FACETS across opinionated dialogs and show that we can identify AFS with a correlation of .54 as opposed to a baseline of .46 provided by a system designed for a similar task. We suspect that the summarize-and-collate approach used here could be promisingly applied to produce annotations on a range of subjective, holistic properties of dialog. In future work, we aim to expand on this work in several ways. First, we hope to expand summaries, similarity judgments, and systems to several topics beyond gay marriage. We believe, for example, that the features and the system we have trained for AFS will apply to other domains without retraining, since none of the features are topic specific, but we have not shown that. In addition, we aim to develop additional features and improve on the results reported here. For example, we believe that it is possible that other off-the-shelf systems, such as for example one for sentence specificity (Louis and Nenkova, 2011; Louis and Nenkova, 2012), might possibly help with aspects of this task. In addition, in future, we aim to automatically identify CENTRAL PROPO SITIONS without the mediation of human summarizers and evaluators. Given the summaries that we have collected for each dialog, we plan to examine the relationship between the contributors to the related pyramid and the original source text, to determine whether indeed there are surface features of the source that would allow us to treat CENTRAL PROPOSITION detection as an extractive task. Acknowledgments This work was funded by NSF GRANT IIS-1302668, Grant NPS-BAA-03, and an IARPA Grant on Persuasion in Dialogue to UCSC by subcontract from the University of Maryland.

