Antoine Bordes, Nicolas Usunier, Alberto Garcia-Duran, Jason Weston, and Oksana Yakhnenko. 2013. Translating embeddings for modeling multi-relational data. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. Antoine Bordes, Sumit Chopra, and Jason Weston. 2014. Question answering with subgraph embeddings. In Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Andrew Carlson, Justin Betteridge, Bryan Kisiel, Burr Settles, Estevam R. Hruschka, and A. 2010. Toward an architecture for never-ending language learning. In In AAAI. Kai-Wei Chang, Wen tau Yih, Bishan Yang, and Christopher Meek. 2014. Typed tensor decomposition of knowledge bases for relation extraction. In Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Silviu Cucerzan and David Yarowsky. 1999. Language indep endent named entity recognition combining morphological and contextual evidence. In oint SIGDAT Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Very Large Corpora. John Duchi, Elad Hazan, and Yoram Singer. 2011. Adaptive subgradient methods for online learning and stochastic optimization. In Journal of Machine Learning Research. Yuan Fang and Ming-Wei Chang. 2014. Entity linking on microblogs with spatial and temporal signals. In Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Stephen Guo, Ming-Wei Chang, and Emre Kiciman. 2013. To link or not to link? a study on end-to-end tweet entity linking. In The North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics., June. Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Leila Zilles, Daniel S. Weld, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2013. Joint coreference resolution and named-entity linking with multi-pass sieves. In Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Cho-Jui Hsieh, Kai-Wei Chang, Chih-Jen Lin, S. Sathiya Keerthi, and S. Sundararajan. 2008. A dual coordinate descent method for large-scale linear svm. In International Conference on Machine Learning. Jun'ichi Kazama and Kentaro Torisawa. 2007. Exploiting wikipedia as external knowledge for named entity recognition. In Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning. Tom Kwiatkowski, Eunsol Choi, Yoav Artzi, and Luke. Zettlemoyer. 2013. Scaling semantic parsers with onthe-fly ontology matching. In Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Ni Lao, Tom Mitchell, and William W. Cohen. 2011. Random walk inference and learning in a large scale

knowledge base. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. David D. Lewis and William A. Gale. 1994. A sequential algorithm for training text classifiers. In ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval. Xiao Ling and Daniel S. Weld. 2012. Fine-grained entity recognition. In Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Sch¨ utze. 2008. Introduction to information retrieval. In Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK. Mike Mintz, Steven Bills, Rion Snow, and Dan Jurafsky. 2009. Distant supervision for relation extraction without labeled data. In Association for Computational Linguistics and International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing. Maximilian Nickel, Volker Tresp, and Hans-Peter Kriegel. 2011. A three-way model for collective learning on multi-relational data. In International Conference on Machine Learning. Patrick Pantel, Thomas Lin, and Michael Gamon. 2012. Mining entity types from query logs via user intent modeling. In Association for Computational Linguistics. Lev Ratinov and Dan Roth. 2012. Learning-based multisieve co-reference resolution with knowledge. In Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning. Sebastian Riedel, Limin Yao, Andrew McCallum, and Benjamin M. Marlin. 2013. Relation extraction with matrix factorization and universal schemas. In The North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Richard Socher, Danqi Chen, Christopher Manning, and Andrew Y. Ng. 2013. Reasoning with neural tensor networks for knowledge base completion. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. Antonio Toral and Rafael Munoz. 2006. A proposal to automatically build and maintain gazetteers for named entity recognition by using wikipedia. In European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Robert West, Evgeniy Gabrilovich, Kevin Murphy, Shaohua Sun, Rahul Gupta, and Dekang Lin. 2014. Knowledge base completion via search-based question answering. In Proceedings of the 23rd international conference on World wide web, pages 515­526. International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee.

524

