Inferring latent attributes of Twitter users with label regularization
Ehsan Mohammady Ardehaly and Aron Culotta Department of Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology Chicago, IL 60616 emohamm1@hawk.iit.edu, aculotta@iit.edu

Abstract
Inferring latent attributes of online users has many applications in public health, politics, and marketing. Most existing approaches rely on supervised learning algorithms, which require manual data annotation and therefore are costly to develop and adapt over time. In this paper, we propose a lightly supervised approach based on label regularization to infer the age, ethnicity, and political orientation of Twitter users. Our approach learns from a heterogeneous collection of soft constraints derived from Census demographics, trends in baby names, and Twitter accounts that are emblematic of class labels. To counteract the imprecision of such constraints, we compare several constraint selection algorithms that optimize classification accuracy on a tuning set. We find that using no user-annotated data, our approach is within 2% of a fully supervised baseline for three of four tasks. Using a small set of labeled data for tuning further improves accuracy on all tasks.

are trained from a set of domain-specific soft constraints, rather than individually labeled instances. For example, label regularization (Mann and McCallum, 2007; Grac ¸ a et al., 2007) uses prior knowledge of the expected label distribution to fit a model from large pools of unlabeled instances. Similarly, annotating features with their expected class frequency has proven to be an efficient way of bootstrapping from domain knowledge (Druck et al., 2009; Melville et al., 2009; Settles, 2011). In this paper we use lightly supervised learning to infer the age, ethnicity, and political orientation of Twitter users. Lightly supervised learning provides a natural method for incorporating the rich, declarative constraints available in social media. Our approach pairs unlabeled Twitter data with constraints from county demographics, trends in first names, and exemplar Twitter accounts strongly associated with a class label. Prior applications of label regularization use a small number of highly-accurate constraints; for example, Mann and McCallum (2007) use a single constraint that is the true label proportions of an unlabeled dataset, and Ganchev and Das (2013) use cross-lingual constraints from aligned text. In contrast, we use hundreds of constraints that are heterogeneous, overlapping, and noisy. For example, we constrain the predicted attributes of users from a county to match those collected by the Census, despite the known non-representativeness of Twitter users (Mislove et al., 2011). Furthermore, users from that county who list first names in their profile have additional constraints imposed upon them, which may conflict with the county constraints.

1

Introduction

Data annotation is a key bottleneck in applying supervised machine learning to language processing problems. This is especially problematic in streaming settings such as social media, where models quickly become dated as new linguistic patterns emerge. An attractive alternative is lightly supervised learning (Schapire et al., 2002; Jin and Liu, 2005; Chang et al., 2007; Grac ¸ a et al., 2007; Quadrianto et al., 2009; Mann and McCallum, 2010; Ganchev et al., 2010). In this approach, classifiers 185

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 185­195, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

