                          



is the overlap between pseudo-terms that have adjacent start times. Although in this case, as is typical, there is no one dominating pseudo-term for the entire nested region, there are some cases in which one pseudo-terms is entirely subsumed by another; pseudo-terms P5 and P6, for example. This trait can be leveraged during term matching.

4

Retrieval Models

Figure 3: Example of overlapping pseudo-terms within Query 42 under medium clustering. Terms are presented as horizontal bars denoting their start and end time.

separately to support partial matching. Because pseudo-term detection can find any pair of matching regions, we could, continuing the analogy, not only get pseudo-terms for "White House Spokesman" and "White House," but also for parts of those words such as "Whit" and "Whi". Indeed, nesting to depth 50 has been observed in practice for noisy clustering, as displayed in Figure 2. This is a fairly typical pseudo-term nesting graph, in which noisy clustering yields deeper nesting than medium clustering, and much deeper nesting than pure clustering. Figure 3 shows a collection of pseudo-terms within an overlapping region; in this case a medium clustering representation of the 1.48 second to 3.67 second region of Query 42.3 As can be seen, calling this "nesting" is somewhat of an oversimplification, the region is actually a set of pseudo-terms that generally overlap to some degree, although not all pseudo-term pairs in one of these "nested" regions actually overlap--pseudo-terms P1 and P21, for example. What gives a nested region its depth
3

The development of ranking functions, referred to as "retrieval models," proceeded in three stages. To establish a baseline, we first implemented a standard bag-of-words approach. We then looked to techniques from Cross-Language Information Retrieval (CLIR) for inspiration, since CLIR techniques must accommodate some degree of translation ambiguity and for which robust techniques have been established. Our zero-resource pseudo-term discovery techniques result in representations that differ from the CLIR case in two key ways, however: 1) in CLIR the translation relationship is normally represented such that one side (query or document) exhibits no ambiguity, whereas we have ambiguity on both sides; and 2) in CLIR the typical scope of all translation alternatives are aligned, whereas we have complex nested units that contain terms with differing temporal extents. We therefore developed a new class of techniques that leverage the temporal extent of a pseudo-term as a measure of specificity (Figure 2) and the fraction of a nested unit covered by a pseudo-term as a measure of descriptiveness (Figure 3). This section describes each of these three types of retrieval models in turn. Indri (Strohman et al., 2004) indexes were built using pseudo-terms from pure, medium or noisy clustering; in each case, stemming and stopword removal were disabled. Indri's query language provides operators that make it possible to implement all of our retrieval models using query-time processing from a single index. 4.1 Types of Retrieval Models

Figure 2 shows the same query between 70 and 90 seconds.

To explore the balance between specificity and descriptiveness, retrieval models were developed that primarily differed along three dimensions: structured versus unstructured, selective versus inclusive, and weighted versus unweighted. Structured mod-

592

