tions over topics (TOPIC), linguistic features that captured mentions of men in dialogue (LING), and social network analysis features (SNA). We additionally experimented with the two scores proposed by Garcia et al. (2014). For BOW, we collected all the words that appeared in conversations between pairs of women and normalized the binary vector by the number of pairs of named women and by the number of conversations they had in a screenplay. BOW was a fixed feature vector of length 18,889. The feature set LING consisted of the following features: (1) the average length of conversations between each pair of named women (2) the number of conversations between each pair of named women, (3) a binary feature that recorded if all conversations between a particular pair of named women mentioned a man, and (4) a binary feature that recorded if any conversation between a particular pair of named women mentioned a man. Let us denote these feature vectors by {v1 , v2 , v3 , v4 }. Note that the length of these features vectors (|vi |  n 2 , where n is the number of named women in a movie) may vary from one movie to the other. We converted these variable length vectors into fixed length vectors of length four by using a function, GET MIN MAX MEAN STD ( VECTOR ), that returned the minimum, maximum, mean, and standard deviation for each vector. In all, we had 4  4 = 16 LING features for each movie. We found multiple instances of conversations that were about men but did not explicitly mention a man. For example, don't we all fall for those pricks? and which one did you fall in love with?. We also found conversations that mentioned a man explicitly and were around the same topic (say, love). For example, I'm not in love with him, okay!. In an attempt to capture possible correlations between general topics and conversations in which women talked about men, we decided to experiment with features derived from topic models. We trained a topic model on all the conversations between named women (Blei et al., 2003; McCallum, 2002). Before training the topic model, we converted all the mentions of men to a fixed tag "MALE" and all the mentions of women to a fixed tag "FEMALE". For each conversation between every pair of women, we queried the topic model for its distribution over the k topics. Since the 836

number of pairs of women and the number of conversations between them could vary from one movie to the other, we took the average of the k -length topic distributions. We experimented with k = 2, 20, and 50. Thus the length of the TOPIC feature vector was 72. While the Bechdel test was originally designed to assess the presence of women, it has subsequently been used to comment on the importance of roles of women in movies. But does talking about men correlate with the importance of their roles? To study this correlation we designed the following set of SNA features. We created variable length feature vectors (length equal to number of women) for several social network analysis metrics (Wasserman and Faust, 1994), all appropriately normalized: (1) degree centrality, (2) closeness centrality, (3) betweenness centrality, (4) the number of men a woman was connected to, and (5) the number of other women a woman was connected to. We created two other variable length feature vectors (length equal to the number of pairs of women) that recorded (6) the number of men in common between two women and (7) the number of women in common between two women. We converted these variable length feature vectors to fixed length vectors of length four by using the GET MIN MAX MEAN STD ( VECTOR ) function described above. This constituted 7  4 = 28 of our SNA features. We additionally experimented with the following features: (8) the ratio of the number of women to the number of men, (9) the ratio of the number of women to the total number of characters, (10) the percentage of women that formed a 3-clique with a man and another woman, (11, 12, 13) the percentage of women in the list of five main characters (main based on each of the three notions of centralities), (14, 15, 16) three boolean features recording whether the main character was a women, (17, 18, 19) three boolean features recording whether any woman connected another woman to the main man, and (20, 21, 23) the percentage of women that connected the main man to another woman. In all we had 28 + 15 = 43 SNA features. As a baseline, we experimented with the features proposed by Garcia et al. (2014). The authors proposed two scores: BF and BM . BF was the ratio of {dialogues between female characters that did not contain mentions of men} over {the total num-

