the correct candidate is recalled for ranking. Table 2 shows the recall of the triager on the reference, tri4b and mono transcripts. Reference recall is quite high, while recall for the ASR systems is much lower. Here, our features dramatically improve the recall, giving the ranker an opportunity to correctly score these queries. The challenge of recall is that many of the mention strings are incorrectly recognized. Table 1 shows the WER of the mention string and the number of mention strings for which the recognition is completely correct. Unsurprisingly, error rates for mentions are higher than the overall WER. In short, success on ASR transcripts is primarily dictated by the effectiveness of finding candidates in triage, which is much harder given the low recognition rate. Our features most benefit overall accuracy by improving recall. Finally, Table 4 provides example of improved recall: mention strings that are incorrectly recognized by the tri4b ASR system leading to linking failures, but are then correctly linked by our improved features. These examples demonstrate the effectiveness of phonetic matching, retrieving the correct "George W. Bush" when the recognizer output "Georgia the Books."

6

Conclusion

We have conducted the first analysis of entity linking for spoken language. Our new features, which rely on phonetic representations of words and expected counts of the lattice for context, improve the accuracy of an entity linker on ASR output. Our analysis reveals that while the linker is not sensitive to large drops in error rates in the context, it is highly sensitive to error rates in mention strings, due to a drop in triage recall. Our features improve the overall accuracy by improving the recall of the triager. Future work should focus on additional methods for identifying relevant KB candidates given inaccurate transcriptions of mention strings.

References
Timothy Baldwin, Paul Cook, Marco Lui, Andrew MacKinlay, and Li Wang. 2013. How noisy social media text, how diffrnt social media sources. In Proceedings of the 6th International Joint Conference on

Natural Language Processing (IJCNLP 2013), pages 356­364. Adrian Benton, Jay Deyoung, Adam Teichert, Mark Dredze, Benjamin Van Durme, Stephen Mayhew, and Max Thomas. 2014. Faster (and better) entity linking with cascades. In NIPS Workshop on Automated Knowledge Base Construction. Maximilian Bisani and Hermann Ney. 2008. Jointsequence models for grapheme-to-phoneme conversion. In Speech Communication, volume 50, pages 434­451. Chris Callison-Burch and Mark Dredze. 2010. Creating speech and language data with amazon's mechanical turk. In Workshop on Creating Speech and Language Data With Mechanical Turk at NAACL-HLT. Taylor Cassidy, Heng Ji, Lev-Arie Ratinov, Arkaitz Zubiaga, and Hongzhao Huang. 2012. Analysis and enhancement of wikification for microblogs with context expansion. In COLING, pages 441­456. Gianluca Demartini, Djellel Eddine Difallah, and Philippe Cudr´ e-Mauroux. 2012. Zencrowd: Leveraging probabilistic reasoning and crowdsourcing techniques for large-scale entity linking. In Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on World Wide Web, WWW '12, pages 469­478, New York, NY, USA. ACM. Mark Dredze, Paul McNamee, Delip Rao, Adam Gerber, and Tim Finin. 2010. Entity disambiguation for knowledge base population. In COLING. Jonathan Fiscus, John Garofolo, Mark Przybocki, William Fisher, and David Pallett. 1997. 1997 english broadcast news speech (hub4). In LDC98S71. Ning Gao, Douglas Oard, and Mark Dredze. 2014. A test collection for email entity linking. In NIPS Workshop on Automated Knowledge Base Construction. Stephen Guo, Ming-Wei Chang, and Emre Kiciman. 2013a. To link or not to link? a study on end-to-end tweet entity linking. In NAACL. Yuhang Guo, Bing Qin, Yuqin Li, Ting Liu, and Sheng Li. 2013b. Improving candidate generation for entity linking. In Natural Language Processing and Information Systems, pages 225­236. Springer. Ben Hachey, Will Radford, Joel Nothman, Matthew Honnibal, and James R. Curran. 2013. Evaluating entity linking with wikipedia. Artificial Intelligence, 194(0):130 ­ 150. Artificial Intelligence, Wikipedia and Semi-Structured Resources. Bo Han, Paul Cook, and Timothy Baldwin. 2013. Lexical normalization for social media text. ACM Trans. Intell. Syst. Technol., 4(1):5:1­5:27, February. Qi He, Jian Pei, Daniel Kifer, Prasenjit Mitra, and Lee Giles. 2010. Context-aware citation recommendation. In Proceedings of the 19th International Conference

229

