· Our experimental results suggest that jointly considering inter-slot relations helps obtain a more coherent and complete semantic slot set.

2

Related Work

With the recent success of commercial dialogue systems and personal assistants (e.g., Microsoft's Cortana1 , Google Now2 , Apple's Siri3 , and Amazon's Echo4 ), a key focus on developing spoken understanding techniques is the scalability issue. From the knowledge management perspective, empowering the system with a large knowledge base is of crucial significance to modern spoken dialogue systems. On this end, our work clearly aligns with recent studies on leveraging semantic knowledge graphs for SLU modeling (Heck et al., 2013; Hakkani-T¨ ur et al., 2013; Hakkani-T¨ ur et al., 2014; El-Kahky et al., 2014; Chen et al., 2014a). While leveraging external knowledge is the trend, efficient inference algorithms, such as random walk, are still less-studied for direct inference on knowledge graphs of the spoken contents. In the natural language processing literature, Lao et al. (2011) used a random walk algorithm to construct inference rules on large entity-based knowledge bases, and leveraged syntactic information for reading the Web (Lao et al., 2012). Even though this work has important contributions, the proposed algorithm cannot learn mutually-recursive relations, and does not to consider lexical items-- in fact, more and more studies show that, in addition to semantic knowledge graphs, lexical knowledge graphs (Inkpen and Hirst, 2006; Song et al., 2011; Li et al., 2013b) that model surface-level natural language realization, multiword expressions, and context (Li et al., 2013a), are also critical for short text understanding (Song et al., 2011; Wang et al., 2014). From the engineering perspective, quick and easy development turnaround time for domain-specific dialogue applications is also critical (Chen and Rudnicky, 2014). Prior work shows that it is possible to use the frame-semantics theory to automatically inhttp://www.windowsphone.com/en-us/how-to/ wp8/cortana 2 http://www.google.com/landing/now 3 http://www.apple.com/ios/siri
4 1

duce and fill semantic slots (Chen et al., 2013b), and that leveraging distributional semantics helps improving the performance (Chen et al., 2014b). However, prior works treat each slot independently and have not considered the inter-slot relations when inducing the semantic slots. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to use syntactically-informed random walk algorithms to combine the semantic and lexical knowledge graphs, and not individually but globally inducing the semantic slots for building better unsupervised SLU components.

3

The Proposed Framework

We build our approach on top of the recent success of an unsupervised frame-semantic parsing approach (Chen et al., 2013b). The main motivation of prior work is to use a FrameNet-trained statistical probabilistic semantic parser to generate initial frame-semantic parses from automatic speech recognition (ASR) decodings of the raw audio conversation files, and then adapt the FrameNet-style frames to the semantic slots in the target semantic space, so that they can be used practically in the SDSs. Chen et al. formulated the semantic mapping and adaptation problem as a ranking problem to differentiate generic semantic concepts from target semantic space for task-oriented dialogue systems. This paper improves the adaptation process by leveraging distributed word embeddings associated with typed syntactic dependencies between words to infer inter-slot relations (Mikolov et al., 2013b; Mikolov et al., 2013c; Levy and Goldberg, 2014). The proposed framework is shown in Figure 1. In the remainder of the section, we first introduce framesemantic parsing to obtain slot candidates. With slot candidates, then we train the independent semantic decoders. The adaptation process, which is the main focus of this paper, is performed to decide outputted slots. Finally we can build an SLU model based on the learned semantic decoders and induced slots. 3.1 Probabilistic Semantic Parsing

http://www.amazon.com/oc/echo

FrameNet is a linguistically-principled semantic resource that offers annotations of predicate-argument semantics, and associated lexical units for English (Baker et al., 1998). FrameNet is developed based on a semantic theory, Frame Semantics (Fill-

620

