English orthography is not "close to optimal"
Garrett Nicolai and Grzegorz Kondrak Department of Computing Science University of Alberta {nicolai,gkondrak}@ualberta.ca

Abstract
In spite of the apparent irregularity of the English spelling system, Chomsky and Halle (1968) characterize it as "near optimal". We investigate this assertion using computational techniques and resources. We design an algorithm to generate word spellings that maximize both phonemic transparency and morphological consistency. Experimental results demonstrate that the constructed system is much closer to optimality than the traditional English orthography.

1

Introduction

English spelling is notorious for its irregularity. Kominek and Black (2006) estimate that it is about 3 times more complex than German, and 40 times more complex than Spanish. This is confirmed by lower accuracy of letter-to-phoneme systems on English (Bisani and Ney, 2008). A survey of English spelling (Carney, 1994) devotes 120 pages to describe phoneme-to-letter correspondences, and lists 226 letter-to-phoneme rules, almost all of which admit exceptions. Numerous proposals have been put forward for spelling reforms over the years, ranging from small changes affecting a limited set of words to complete overhauls based on novel writing scripts (Venezky, 1970). In spite of the perceived irregularity of English spellings, Chomsky and Halle (1968) assert that they remarkably well reflect abstract underlying forms, from which the surface pronunciations are generated with "rules of great generality and wide applicability". They postulate two principles of an optimal orthographic system: (1) it should have "one representation for each lexical entry" (consistency); and, 537

(2) "phonetic variation is not indicated where it is predictable by a general rule" (predictability). They conclude that "conventional orthography is [. . . ] a near optimal system for the lexical representation of English words" (page 49), which we refer to as the optimality claim. Chomsky and Halle's account of English orthography is not without its detractors. Steinberg (1973) argues against the idea that speakers store abstract underlying forms of separate morphemes and apply sequences of phonological rules during composition. Sampson (1985) cites the work of Yule (1978) in asserting that many common English word-forms provide counter-evidence to their vowel alternation observations. Derwing (1992) maintains that the observations only hold for five vowel alternations that can be predicted with simple spelling rules. According to Nunn (2006), the idea that spelling represents an abstract phonological level has been abandoned by most linguists. Sproat (2000) notes that few scholars of writing systems would agree with Chomsky and Halle, concluding that the evidence for a consistent morphological representation in English orthography is equivocal. It is not our goal to formulate yet another proposal for reforming English orthography, nor even to argue that there is a need for such a reform. Furthermore, we refrain from taking into account other potential advantages of the traditional orthography, such as reflecting archaic pronunciation of native words, preserving the original spelling of loanwords, or maintaining orthographic similarity to cognates in other languages. Although these may be valid concerns, they are not considered as such by Chomsky and Halle. Instead, our primary objective is a deeper understanding of how the phono-

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 537­545, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

