Figure 1:

An example analysis and predicate argument alignment task between a source and target document. Predicates appear as hollow ovals, have blue mentions, and are aligned considering their arguments (dashed lines). Arguments, in black diamonds with green mentions, represent a document-level entity (coreference chain), and are aligned using their predicate structure and mention-level features. The alignment choices appear in the middle in red. Temporal relation information is lifted into the global inference over alignments.

this as a binary classification problem: given a pair of arguments or predicates, construct features and score the pair, where scores above threshold indicate links. A binary classification framework has advantages: it's fast since individual decisions can be made quickly, but it comes at the cost of global information across links. The result may be links that conflict in their interpretation of the document. Figure 1 makes clear that jointly considering all links at once can aid individual decisions, for example, by including temporal ordering of predicates. The global nature of this task is similar to word alignment for machine translation (MT). Many systems consider alignment links between words individually, selecting the best link for each word independently of the other words in the sentence. Just as with an independent linking strategy in predicate argument alignment, this can lead to inconsistencies in the output. Lacoste-Julien et al. (2006) introduced a model that jointly resolved word alignments based on the introduction of quadratic variables, factors that depend on two alignment decisions which characterize patterns that span word-word links. Their approach achieved improved results even in the presence of little training data. 12

We present a global predicate argument alignment model based on considering quadratic interactions between alignment variables to captures patterns we expect in coherent discourse. We introduce factors which are comprised of a binary variable, multiple quadratic constraints on that variable, and features that determine the cost associated with that variable in order to characterize the dependence between alignment decisions. While the mathematical framework we use is similar to Lacoste-Julien et al. (2006), predicate argument alignment greatly differs from word alignment; thus our joint factors are based on different sources of regularity. Word alignment favors monotonicity in word order, but this effect is very weak in predicate argument alignment: aligned items can be spread throughout a document, and are often nested, gapped, or shuffled. Instead, we encode assumptions about consistency of temporal relations between coreferent events, coherence between predicates and arguments that appear in both documents, and fertility (to prevent over-alignment). We also note that our setting has much less data than typical word alignment tasks, as well as richer features that utilize semantic resources.

