System hypotheses a. b. a. The son was died after one year 's treatment and a couple got divorced later after that . The son had died after one year 's and the couple got divorced later after that . Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as a financial issues , everyone should be given right of knowing their family 's inherented medical conditions . Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as finance , everyone should be given the right of knowing their family 's inherented medical conditions . Taking Angeline Jolie , for example , she is famous but she still reveal the truth about her genetic testing to the development of her breast cancer risk . Taking Angeline Jolie for example , she is famous but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing on the development of her breast cancer risk .

Best F0.5

× ×

I

×

b.

× × ×

a. b.

Table 12: Example hypotheses produced by two error correction systems (a and b). The last two columns indicate the highest-scoring hypothesis from each pair according to each evaluation metric.

sentially distance metrics, but judging between hypotheses without looking at the source or reference sentences is a distinct task, which is more similar to sentence quality estimation for machine translation output. Our evaluation method overcomes many of the limitations of previous approaches by using a stable unit of evaluation, weighting edit operations in line with the goals of grammatical error correction and making the most of the available annotations. Values of F are always positive, with no clear interpretation or threshold that would indicate improvement of the original text whereas the I -measure provides meaningful indicators (I < 0 for degradation, I = 0 for no change and I > 0 for improvement). Table 12 shows a few examples where the M2 Scorer differs from our method, revealing how the I -measure is able to pick hypotheses in accord with (at least our) intuitions.

system error rate. Improvement is measured using a reformulation of accuracy where TPs and FPs are weighted higher than TNs and FNs, in an attempt to model desirable aspects of correction. We also combine individual corrections from different annotators, as this improves R and ensures systems get the maximum possible score from the available annotations. Experiments show I and F0.5 are inversely correlated and account for different aspects of system performance. Choosing one metric over the other poses a fundamental question about the aims of error correction, whether we prefer a system that tackles few errors but improves the original text or one that handles many more errors but degrades the original. We believe that, from a user perspective, a system that reliably improves text is more desirable. Future work might usefully explore automated sentence quality estimation, as a component both of grammatical error correction systems and of their evaluation, in order to ameliorate the issue that any set of gold standard references will underspecify the set of possible corrections. An open-source implementation of our evaluation method is available for download at https: //github.com/mfelice/imeasure.

5

Conclusion

We have presented a new evaluation method for grammatical error detection and correction that overcomes many of the limitations of previous approaches and provides more meaningful indicators of system performance. The method is designed to evaluate improvement in correction of the input text by analysing post586

