tors/shifters as well as nonveridical moods affect the sentiment of a phrase, they show that it is possible to reach good results across different domains. Choi and Cardie (2009) show that it is possible to adapt an existing general-domain sentiment lexicon to a specific domain using an approach that optimizes a joint objective of classification loss, sparsity of the changes made to the lexicon, and ambiguity of lexicon entries. Their approach yields appreciable gains over the general-domain lexicon, both with CRF-based machine learning classification and with a simpler "vote & flip" algorithm that is based on majority voting and negators. Crosslingual Sentiment Analysis involves the usage of a dataset in one language to perform sentiment analysis in another language; in their work, Banea et al. (2013) show that translating text in the target language to the source language and applying a well-tuned sentiment classification system works better than either translating the training corpus or the lexicon used by the system. In research by other groups, Wan (2009) advocates a bootstrapping approach that combines source-side and target-side features in one classifier; Duh et al. (2011) note that crosslingual sentiment analysis techniques always incur a loss due to the shift in language from the source language texts to the target language even though the general domain is the same. Popat et al. (2013) argue that full machine translation is not useful for resource-scarce languages, and propose to use cross-lingual clustering both to improve the generalization capability within a single language as well as for crosslingual projection, which works better than machine translation with the English-Hindi language pair. It should be noted that most of the work presented in the last two paragraph works with document-level sentiment, or (in the case of Choi and Cardie) with shallower annotations, and offers additional challenges in the case of sentiment composition.

-0
Was what

-0
mir me

-0
schwer heavy auf on

0 0 goes 0
die the geht

0
Nerven nerves

"What really gets on my nerves . . . "
Figure 2: A multiword expression in HeiST

3

Low-Budget Treebanking for Sentiment

For both supervised training and for evaluation, we created a German dataset that is close in domain to the Stanford Sentiment treebank (Socher et al., 2013), covering opinionated sentences from movie reviews with phrase-level sentiment annotations. 696

The original Stanford Sentiment Treebank is based on the dataset of Pang and Lee (2005), which includes 10,662 sentences from excerpts of movie reviews published on rottentomatoes.com. It should be noted that these excerpts are much more likely to express an opinion than general text or even the main body of a movie review since they contain precisely a summary of the opinion. In order to match both domain and role of these sentences most precisely, we collected creativecommons-licensed reviews from a German movie review site, filmrezensionen.de, and used only the summary part of these documents, yielding 1184 sentences, for which we crowdsourced annotation for each individual phrase in the binary tree (see Figure 2 for an example tree fragment). For the purpose of getting binary phrase trees, sentences were processed with the Berkeley Parser (Petrov et al., 2006), NP nodes were added inside PPs (Samuelsson and Volk, 2004) and the resulting parse trees binarized using the head table in CoreNLP (Rafferty and Manning, 2008), yielding 14,321 unique phrases. Annotation was outsourced via the CrowdFlower service, which collects three judgements for each phrase and computes an end result through voting, using unambiguous test items (which we composed from strongly positive or strongly negative adjective-noun combinations) to filter out annotators lacking the requisite understanding of German.

