the collection on which we have run our experiments computationally strenuous. We believe, however, that by demonstrating the utility of the techniques introduced in this paper we can help to motivate further work on even more affordable scalable language-agnostic techniques for generating indexable terms from speech.

2

Motivation and Related Work

Extending spoken language processing to lowresource languages has been a longstanding goal of the Spoken Web Search task of MediaEval. In this task, research teams are challenged to identify instances of specific spoken terms that are provided as queries in a few hours of speech. Between 2011 and 2013, the task was run three times on a total of 16 different languages (Rajput and Metze, 2011; Metze et al., 2012; Anguera et al., 2013).2 Two broad classes of techniques over this span proved to be practical: one based on phonetic recognition followed by phonetic matching; the other based on direct matching of acoustic features. Of the two approaches, phonetic recognition was, at the time, slightly more accurate. Directly matching acoustic features, the focus of this paper, potentially offers easier extensibility to additional languages. From the perspective of information retrieval, the principal limitation of the "spoken term detection" design of the MediaEval task was the restriction to single-term queries. While single-term queries are common in Web search (Spink et al., 2001), the best reported Actual Term Weighted Value (ATWV) from any MediaEval Spoken Web Search participant was 0.4846 (Abad and Astudillo, 2012). This corresponds to a system that correctly detects 48 per cent of all instances of the spoken query terms, while producing at most ten false alarms for every missed detection (Fiscus et al., 2007). Thus, if users are willing to tolerate low precision, moderate levels of recall are possible. Speech search arguably demands higher precision than does Web search, however, since browsing multiple alternatives is easier in text than in speech. One way of potentially improving retrieval performance is to encourage a searcher to speak at length about what they are look2 For example, Gujarati, isiNdebele, isiXhosa, Sepedi, Setswana, Telugu, Tshivenda, and Xitsonga.

ing for (Oard, 2012). Such an approach, however, introduces the new challenge of properly leveraging the additional matching potential of verbose multiterm queries (White et al., 2013). To this end, our work builds on two components: a term matching system, and a test collection. As a term matching system, we used our zero-knowledge speech matching system. In MediaEval 2012, this system achieved an ATWV of 0.321 in the Spoken Web Search task (Jansen et al., 2012). A version of this system has previously been evaluated in an example-based topic classification task using English speech, achieving a classification accuracy of 0.8683 (Drezde et al., 2010). Ranked retrieval using naturally occurring queries is more challenging, however, both because topics in information retrieval are often not easily separable, and because the form of a query may be unlike the form of the responses that are sought. Our goal now, therefore, is to use an information retrieval evaluation framework to drive the development of robust techniques for accommodating representational uncertainty. Traditional spoken term detection (STD) tries to address uncertainty by learning speech-signal to language-model mappings; using neural networks (Cui et al., 2013; Gales et al., 2014) or Markov models (Chan et al., 2013), for example. From a broad perspective, the method utilized in our work does not use an acoustic model for its analysis. More fundamentally, however, speech signals in our collection map to dozens of smaller terms that are not necessarily the same across utterances of the same word. Thus, it is more accurate to think of the work herein as matching signal features rather than linguistic features. For this reason, widely used techniques such as stemming, spelling correction, and stopword removal that rely to some extent on linguistic features do not apply in our setting. We therefore rely on term and corpus statistics. Even here there are limitations, since our lexical items are not easily aligned with those found in other collections. For this reason, we can not leverage external corpus statistics from, for example, Google or Wikipedia (Bendersky et al., 2011; Bendersky et al., 2010; Bendersky and Croft, 2008; Lease, 2009), or phrases from search logs (Svore et al., 2010). Evaluation of ranked retrieval for spoken content

589

