Joint Generation of Transliterations from Multiple Representations
Lei Yao and Grzegorz Kondrak Department of Computing Science University of Alberta Edmonton, AB, Canada {lyao1,gkondrak}@ualberta.ca

Abstract
Machine transliteration is often referred to as phonetic translation. We show that transliterations incorporate information from both spelling and pronunciation, and propose an effective model for joint transliteration generation from both representations. We further generalize this model to include transliterations from other languages, and enhance it with reranking and lexicon features. We demonstrate significant improvements in transliteration accuracy on several datasets.

1

Introduction

Transliteration is the conversion of a text from one script to another. When a new name like Eyjafjallaj¨ okull appears in the news, it needs to be promptly transliterated into dozens of languages. Computer-generated transliterations can be more accurate than those created by humans (Sherif and Kondrak, 2007). When the names in question originate from languages that use the same writing script as the target language, they are likely to be copied verbatim; however, their pronunciation may still be ambiguous. Existing transliterations and transcriptions can help in establishing the correct pronunciation (Bhargava and Kondrak, 2012). Transliteration is often defined as phonetic translation (Zhang et al., 2012). In the idealized model of Knight and Graehl (1997), a bilingual expert pronounces a name in the source language, modifies the pronunciation to fit the target language phonology, and writes it down using the orthographic rules of the target script. In practice, however, it may be difficult to guess the correct pronunciation of an unfamiliar name from the spelling. 943

Phonetic-based models of transliteration tend to achieve suboptimal performance. Al-Onaizan and Knight (2002) report that a spelling-based model outperforms a phonetic-based model even when pronunciations are extracted from a pronunciation dictionary. This can be attributed to the importance of the source orthography in the transliteration process. For example, the initial letters of the Russian transliterations of the names Chicano ([tSIkAno]) and Chicago ([SIkAgo]) are identical, but different from Shilo ([SIlo]). The contrast is likely due to the idiosyncratic spelling of Chicago. Typical transliteration systems learn direct orthographic mapping between the source and the target languages from parallel training sets of word pairs (Zhang et al., 2012). Their accuracy is limited by the fact that the training data is likely to contain names originating from different languages that have different romanization rules. For example, the Russian transliterations of Jedi, Juan, Jenins, Jeltoqsan, and Jecheon all differ in their initial letters. In addition, because of inconsistent correspondences between letters and phonemes in some languages, the pronunciation of a word may be difficult to derive from its orthographic form. We believe that transliteration is not simply phonetic translation, but rather a process that combines both phonetic and orthographic information. This observation prompted the development of several hybrid approaches that take advantage of both types of information, and improvements were reported on some test corpora (Al-Onaizan and Knight, 2002; Bilac and Tanaka, 2004; Oh and Choi, 2005). These models, which we discuss in more detail in Section 2.1, are well behind the current state of the art in machine transliteration.

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 943­952, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

