translated into English (using the current stateof-art techniques), and then run through a stateof-the-art English sentiment analysis system? 2. How does this performance compare with that of a current state-of-the-art Arabic sentiment system? 3. What is the loss in sentiment predictability when translating Arabic text into English automatically vs. manually? 4. How difficult is it for humans to determine sentiment of automatically translated text? 5. When dealing with translated text, which is more accurate at determining the sentiment of Arabic text: (1) automatic sentiment analysis of the translated text, or (2) human annotation of the translated text for sentiment? The inferences drawn from these experiments do not necessarily apply to language pairs other than Arabic­English. Languages can differ significantly in terms of characteristics that impact accuracy of an automatic sentiment analysis system. Our goal here specifically is to understand sentiment predictability of Arabic dialectal text on translation. However, a similar set of experiments can be used for other language pairs as well to determine the impact of translation on sentiment. Through our experiments on two different datasets, we show that sentiment analysis of English translations of Arabic texts produces competitive results, w.r.t. Arabic sentiment analysis. We also show that translation (both manual and automatic) introduces marked changes in sentiment carried by the text; positive and negative texts can often be translated into texts that are neutral. We also find that certain attributes of automatically translated text that mislead humans with regards to the true sentiment of the source text, do not seem to affect the automatic sentiment analysis system. In the process of developing these experiments to study how translation alters sentiment, we created a state-of-the-art Arabic sentiment analysis system by porting NRC-Canada's competition winning system (Kiritchenko et al., 2014) to Arabic. We also created a substantial amount of sentiment labeled data pertaining to Arabic social media texts and their English translations which is made freely available.1
1

This is the first such resource where text in one language and its translations into another language (both manually and automatically produced) are each manually labeled for sentiment.

2
2.1

Related Work
Sentiment Analysis of English Social Media

Sentiment analysis systems have been applied to many different kinds of texts including customer reviews, newspaper headlines (Bellegarda, 2010), novels (Boucouvalas, 2002; Mohammad and Yang, 2011), emails (Liu et al., 2003; Mohammad and Yang, 2011), blogs (Neviarouskaya et al., 2011), and tweets (Mohammad, 2012). Often these systems have to cater to the specific needs of the text such as formality versus informality, length of utterances, etc. Sentiment analysis systems developed specifically for tweets include those by Go et al. (2009), Pak and Paroubek (2010), Agarwal et al. (2011), and Thelwall et al. (2011). A survey by Mart´ inez-C´ amara et al. (2012) provides an overview of the research on sentiment analysis of tweets. In the last two years, several shared tasks on sentiment analysis were organized by the Conference on Semantic Evaluation Exercises (SemEval), which allowed for comparison of different approaches on common datasets from different domains (Wilson et al., 2013; Rosenthal et al., 2014; Pontiki et al., 2014). The NRC-Canada system (Kiritchenko et al., 2014) ranked first in these competitions, and we use it in our experiments. Details of the system are described in Section 6. 2.2 Sentiment Analysis of Arabic Social Media

http://www.purl.com/net/ArabicSentiment

Sentiment analysis of Arabic social media texts has several challenges. The text is often in a regional Arabic dialect rather than Modern Standard Arabic (MSA). Unlike MSA which is a standardized form of Arabic, dialectal Arabic is the spoken form of Arabic and lacks strict writing standards. The text often includes words from languages other than Arabic and multiple scripts may be used to express Arabic and foreign words. In addition, Arabic is a morphologically complex language, thus having a lexicon of word-sentiment associations that covers all different surface forms becomes a cumbersome task. Negation in MSA is expressed through negation par-

768

