John Blitzer, Ryan McDonald, and Fernando Pereira. 2006. Domain adaptation with structural correspondence learning. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Phil Blunsom and Trevor Cohn. 2011. A hierarchical Pitman-Yor process HMM for unsupervised part of speech induction. In Proceedings of ACL-HLT. Alena B¨ ohmov´ a, Jan Haji c, Eva Haji cov´ a, and Barbora Hladk´ a. 2003. The Prague dependency treebank. In Proceedings of Treebanks. Springer. Sabine Brants, Stefanie Dipper, Silvia Hansen, Wolfgang Lezius, and George Smith. 2002. The TIGER treebank. In Proceedings of the workshop on treebanks and linguistic theories. Peter F. Brown, Peter V. Desouza, Robert L. Mercer, Vincent J. Della Pietra, and Jenifer C. Lai. 1992. Classbased n-gram models of natural language. Computational linguistics. Grzegorz Chrupala, Georgiana Dinu, and Josef Van Genabith. 2008. Learning morphology with Morfette. In Proceedings of LREC. Grzegorz Chrupala. 2011. Efficient induction of probabilistic word classes with LDA. In Proceedings of IJCNLP. Alexander Clark. 2003. Combining distributional and morphological information for part of speech induction. In Proceedings of EACL. Michael Collins. 2002. Discriminative training methods for hidden Markov models: Theory and experiments with perceptron algorithms. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Ronan Collobert and Jason Weston. 2008. A unified architecture for natural language processing: Deep neural networks with multitask learning. In Proceedings of ICML. Toma z Erjavec. 2010. MULTEXT-East version 4: Multilingual morphosyntactic specifications, lexicons and corpora. In Proceedings of LREC. Jes´ us Gim´ enez and Lluis Marquez. 2004. SVMTool: A general POS tagger generator based on support vector machines. In Proceedings of LREC. Yoav Goldberg and Michael Elhadad. 2013. Word segmentation, unknown-word resolution, and morphological agreement in a Hebrew parsing system. Computational Linguistics. Nizar Habash and Owen Rambow. 2005. Arabic tokenization, part-of-speech tagging and morphological disambiguation in one fell swoop. In Proceedings of ACL. Jan Haji c and Barbora Hladk´ a. 1998. Tagging inflective languages: Prediction of morphological categories for a rich, structured tagset. In Proceedings of Coling. Jan Haji c, Massimiliano Ciaramita, Richard Johansson, Daisuke Kawahara, Maria Ant` onia Mart´ i, Llu´ is

M` arquez, Adam Meyers, Joakim Nivre, Sebastian  ep´ Pad´ o, Jan St anek, et al. 2009. The CoNLL-2009 shared task: Syntactic and semantic dependencies in multiple languages. In Proceedings of CoNLL. Jan Haji c. 2000. Morphological tagging: Data vs. dictionaries. In Proceedings of NAACL. Jan Haji c. 2001. Czech Free Morphology. Dag TT Haug and Marius Jøhndal. 2008. Creating a parallel treebank of the old Indo-European bible translations. In Proceedings of LaTeCH. Zhongqiang Huang, Vladimir Eidelman, and Mary Harper. 2009. Improving a simple bigram hmm partof-speech tagger by latent annotation and self-training. In Proceedings of NAACL. Tibor Kiss and Jan Strunk. 2006. Unsupervised multilingual sentence boundary detection. Computational Linguistics. Terry Koo, Xavier Carreras, and Michael Collins. 2008. Simple semi-supervised dependency parsing. In Proceedings of ACL. John Lafferty, Andrew McCallum, and Fernando Pereira. 2001. Conditional random fields: Probabilistic models for segmenting and labeling sequence data. In Proceedings of ICML. Michael Lamar, Yariv Maron, Mark Johnson, and Elie Bienenstock. 2010. SVD and clustering for unsupervised POS tagging. In Proceedings of ACL. Percy Liang. 2005. Semi-supervised learning for natural language. Ph.D. thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Christopher D. Manning, Mihai Surdeanu, John Bauer, Jenny Finkel, Steven Bethard, and David McClosky. 2014. The Stanford CoreNLP natural language processing toolkit. In Proceedings of ACL: System Demonstrations. Montserrat Marimon, Beatriz Fisas, N´ uria Bel, Marta Villegas, Jorge Vivaldi, Sergi Torner, Merc` e Lorente, Silvia V´ azquez, and Marta Villegas. 2012. The IULA treebank. In Proceedings of LREC. Sven Martin, Jorg Liermann, and Hermann Ney. 1998. Algorithms for bigram and trigram word clustering. Speech communication. Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean. 2013. Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space. In Proceedings of ICLR: Workshop. Scott Miller, Jethran Guinness, and Alex Zamanian. 2004. Name tagging with word clusters and discriminative training. In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT. Thomas M¨ uller, Helmut Schmid, and Hinrich Sch¨ utze. 2013. Efficient higher-order CRFs for morphological tagging. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Franz J. Och. 1999. An efficient method for determining bilingual word classes. In Proceedings of EACL.

535

