Accuracy Good

POS Adj

Examples serious < life-threatening < fatal considerably < significantly < dramatically common < frequent = prevalent slightly < modestly < marginally useful < helpful continuously = regularly

Good

Adv

Average

Adj

Average

Adv

Bad Bad

Adj Adv

Table 5: Example rankings for adjectives and adverbs from PubMed data.

6.2

Ranking

As in the case of adjectives, our annotators for domain-specific adverbs faced a challenge in ranking adverbs due to lack of context. Therefor we do not report results on ranking of adverbs. We obtained gold standard annotations for ranking using AMT for 25 clusters of regular adverbs derived from the PubMed corpus, using the exact same methodology as described in Section 4.2. The strength counts for these adverbs were also derived from the PubMed corpus. We obtained an accuracy of 71.00% across 38 pairs ­ a performance similar to the adjectives. However, we observe that there are a large number of pairs for which there are no strength counts, and the MILP does not generate a ranking. Table 5 shows sample results for ranking adjectives and adverbs from the PubMed data.

on semantic intensity can be successful established between regular terms, doing so for domain-specific terms requires knowledge of context. We plan to expand the structure patterns derived from the lexical patterns of de Melo and Bansal (2013), looking for new patterns that could be more suited for adverbs. We also plan to investigate soft clustering algorithms such as (Pereira et al., 1993) that may allow us to model polysemous words better. Furthermore, recent studies have compared traditional vectors against embedded vectors (such as the CBOW vectors used in this study) for different lexical semantic tasks (Levy and Goldberg, 2014; Baroni et al., 2014), which suggests that such a comparison for our clustering task could be insightful. Our experimental results show that automatic clustering of gradable words produces promising results. However, we also observe that with domainspecific words, context is important for establishing a ranking between words that is based on semantic intensity. Thus, rather than clustering adjectives or adverbs in isolation, a joint with the clustering of nouns or verbs with which they occur is a possible direction of research. Finally, studies deriving a ranking based on semantic intensities are limited to unigrams belonging to different parts of speech. Our future work would focus on performing a similar task on bigrams consisting of adverb-adjective pairs (e.g., somewhat unclear < quite hard < very difficult) that exhibit properties of gradability.

Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Mohit Bansal and Gerard de Melo for providing the implementation and results of the experiments from their previous work. Research reported in this publication was supported by the National Library of Medicine of the National Institutes of Health under award number R01LM011116. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health.

7

Limitations and future work

We present an approach to gradable modifier ordering that replaces WordNet-based clusters with automatically derived word clusters, replaces lexical patterns with structural patterns, and show that the approach has utility for not only discovering adjective patterns but also adverb patterns in biomedical text. We observe that while automatic ranking based 491

References
David Arthur and Sergei Vassilvitskii. 2007. Kmeans++: The advantages of careful seeding. In Proceedings of the Eighteenth Annual ACM-SIAM Sympo-

