far from being solved. Our analysis revealed that there are at least three points worth mentioning. First, using external resources contributes to the improved performance of our method compared to others that only use internal features. Second, employing and designing sophisticated features, especially those that encode background knowledge or semantic relationship like the word embedding features from a large corpus we used, will enable language concepts to be distinguished more easily in the presence of a large number of candidates. Third, one limitation of the use of the external resources is that they are not always available, such as the pairwise news articles along with the human generated summaries, and the relevant Wiki pages. While much recent work has focused on algorithmic development, the summarization task needs to have a deeper "understanding" of a document in order to reach the next level of performance. Such an understanding can be facilitated by the incorporation of background knowledge, which can lead to significant summarization performance improvement, as demonstrated in this study.

Acknowledgments
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their detailed and insightful comments on earlier drafts of this paper. The work is partially supported by NSF award IIS-0845484 and DARPA Contract No. FA8750-132-0041. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the funding agencies.

References
Stefano Baccianella, Andrea Esuli, and Fabrizio Sebastiani. 2010. Sentiwordnet 3.0: An enhanced lexical resource for sentiment analysis and opinion mining. In Proceedings of LREC. Michael Collins. 2002. Discriminative training methods for hidden markov models: Theory and experiments with perceptron algorithms. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Sashka T. Davis, John M. Conroy, and Judith D. Schlesinger. 2012. Occams - an optimal combinatorial covering algorithm for multi-document summarization. In Proceedings of ICDM.

Dan Gillick, Benoit Favre, and Dilek Hakkani-Tur. 2008. The ICSI summarization system at tac 2008. In Proceedings of TAC. Dan Gillick, Benoit Favre, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Berndt Bohnet, Yang Liu, and Shasha Xie. 2009. The ICSI/UTD summarization system at tac 2009. In Proceedings of TAC. Kazi Saidul Hasan and Vincent Ng. 2014. Automatic keyphrase extraction: A survey of the state of the art. In Proceedings of ACL. Kai Hong and Ani Nenkova. 2014. Improving the estimation of word importance for news multi-document summarization. In Proceedings of EACL. Houping Jia, Xiaojiang Huang, Tengfei Ma, Xiaojun Wan, and Jianguo Xiao. 2010. Pkutm participation at tac 2010 rte and summarization track. In Proceedings of TAC. Jay J Jiang and David W Conrath. 1997. Semantic similarity based on corpus statistics and lexical taxonomy. arXiv preprint cmp-lg/9709008. Samir Khuller, Anna Moss, and Joseph Seffi Naor. 1999. The budgeted maximum coverage problem. Information Processing Letters. Judith L. Klavans and Min-Yen Kan. 1998. Role of verbs in document analysis. In Proceedings of the ACL. Niraj Kumar, Kannan Srinathan, and Vasudeva Varma. 2010. An effective approach for aesop and guided summarization task. In Proceedings of TAC. Chen Li, Fei Liu, Fuliang Weng, and Yang Liu. 2013a. Document summarization via guided sentence compression. In Proceedings of the EMNLP. Chen Li, Xian Qian, and Yang Liu. 2013b. Using supervised bigram-based ilp for extractive summarization. In Proceedings of ACL. Chen Li, Yang Liu, Fei Liu, Lin Zhao, and Fuliang Weng. 2014. Improving multi-documents summarization by sentence compression based on expanded constituent parse trees. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Hui Lin and Jeff Bilmes. 2010. Multi-document summarization via budgeted maximization of submodular functions. In Proceedings of NAACL. Dekang Lin. 1998. An information-theoretic definition of similarity. In Proceedings of ICML. Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. Rouge: a package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Proceedings of ACL. Patrice Lopez and Laurent Romary. 2010. Humb: Automatic key term extraction from scientific articles in grobid. In Proceedings of the international workshop on semantic evaluation. Andre F. T. Martins and Noah A. Smith. 2009. Summarization with a joint model for sentence extraction and compression. In Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Integer Linear Programming for Natural Language Processing.

786

