CRF Semi-CRF Semi-CRF + Prosody

Prec. 84.0 88.6 89.5

Rec. 82.1 81.7 82.7

F1 83.0 85.0 86.0

Long; 2.5x average duration for of that kind of to me it is more

Table 1: Disfluency results on the development set. Adding span features on top of a CRF baseline improves performance, and including raw acoustic information gives further performance gains.

Pause: 1313ms

are just repeated phrases, and longer phrases are generally not repeated verbatim in fluent language, this feature is a strong indicator of disfluencies when it fires on longer spans. For similar reasons, we fire features for the length of the longest repeated sequences of words and POS tags (the bottom box in Figure 3). In addition to general repeated words, we fire a separate feature for the number of uncommon words (appearing less than 50 times in the training data) contained in the span that are repeated later in the sentence; consider upper from Figure 1, which would be unlikely to be repeated on its own as compared to stopwords. Lastly, we include features on the POS tag bigrams surrounding each span boundary (top of Figure 3), as well as the bigram formed from the POS tags immediately before and after the span. These features aim to capture the idea that a disfluency is a mistake with a disjuncture before the repair, so the ending bigram will generally not be a commonly seen fluent pair, and the POS tags surrounding the reparandum should be fluent if the reparandum were removed. Table 1 shows that the additional features enabled by the CRF significantly improve performance on top of the basic CRF model.

Figure 4: Raw acoustic features. The combination of a long pause and considerably longer than average duration for of is a strong indicator of a disfluency.

4.1

Raw Acoustic Features

The first way we implemented this information was in the form of raw prosodic features related to pauses between words and word duration. To compute these features, we make use of the alignment between the speech signal and the raw text. Pauses are then simply identified by looking for pairs of words whose alignments are not flush. The specific features used are indicators of the existence of a pause immediately before or after a span, and the total number of pauses contained within a span. Word duration is computed based on the deviation of a word's length from its average length averaged over all occurrences in the corpus.4 We fire duration features similar to the pause features, namely indicators of whether the duration of the first and last words in a span deviate beyond some threshold from the average, and the total number of such deviations within a span. As displayed in Table 1, adding these raw features results in improved performance on top of the gains from the semi-CRF model. 4.2 ToBI Features

4

Exploiting Acoustic Information

Section 3 discussed a primarily structural improvement to disfluency detection. Henceforth, we will use the semi-CRF model exclusively and discuss two methods of incorporating acoustic duration information that might be predictive of disfluencies. Our results will show that features targeting raw acoustic properties of the signal (Section 4.1) are quite effective, while using ToBI breaks as a discrete indicator to import the same information does not give benefits (Section 4.2) 260

In addition to the raw acoustic features, we also tried utilizing discrete indicators of acoustic information, specifically ToBI break indices (Silverman et al., 1992). Previous work has shown performance improvements resulting from the use of such discrete information in other tasks, such as parsing (Kahn et al., 2005; Dreyer and Shafran, 2007; Huang and Harper, 2010). We chose to focus specifically on ToBI breaks rather than on ToBI tones because tonal information has appeared relatively less
4

Note that this averages over multiple speakers as well.

