thematic roles. To illustrate, in order to determine how well workshop fits as a location for eat, they would construct a centroid of other locations for eat that appear in the DM, e.g. kitchen, restaurant, cafeteria up to 20. Each of these top 20 represent a "slice" of the tensor along one of the word axes. One such slice, corresponding to w1 , is a matrix of links and words to which w1 is connected. This tensor slice is collapsed into a vector whose components are word-link pairs. This is the vector of w1 . All 20 such vectors are added up and the sum is the centroid that represents, e.g., the typical locations of eat. Then a vector is constructed from the slice of the tensor corresponding to workshop. The thematic fit score is the cosine of the location centroid of eat and the vector of workshop. Accessing thematic roles in SDDM and SDDMX is straightforward, as the links in these models are PropBank roles. Agent is ARG0, patient is ARG1, location is ARGM-LOC, and we use a combination of ARGM-MNR, ARG2, and ARG3 to represent instruments, based on a translation of the roles used by Ferretti et al. (2001). The role mapping for TypeDM involves a combination of sbj tr and subj intr (transitive and intransitive subjects) for agents, obj for patients, the prepositional links in, at, and on for locations, and with for instruments. 2.3 Word Sense Disambiguation in Distributional Models

While distributional models carry important information about the relative frequencies of word usages, and perhaps even phrase usages, they often must collapse such usages into one representation. For example, suppose within the domain of cooking recipes, serve occurs in its food sense (see cluster 1 in Figure 1) 97% of the time. The other senses will have negligible effect on the representation of serve because their frequencies are so much lower. But in a web crawl, the distribution is quite likely to be more uniform, which means the senses will "split the difference" in the representation and end up not being that similar to any instance of serve. Many systems work to alleviate this problem by performing manipulations on words as they occur in training corpora (e.g., Thater et al., 2011). Namely, 25

the base vector for the potentially ambiguous word is contextualized, as in scaled element-wise, by the vectors of the neighboring words for that instance. This is quite intuitive because if serve and cake occur next to each other, the chance that a non-food sense of the word serve was intended would be extremely small, in fact much smaller than a corpuswide distribution would predict. These systems have been effective at improving correlation with human judgements for a verb-object composition model, i.e. approximating a vector for serve cake given a vector for serve and a vector for cake (Kartsaklis et al., 2014), and also reducing noise in similarity scores for a nearest neighbor-based prepositional phrase attachment disambiguator (Greenberg, 2014). It remains a choice of the system whether to store explicit senses separately, and relatedly, whether to consult a knowledge base for the number of senses for each word, or even for meaning representations of those senses. Using a task-general knowledge base, in addition to the inherent cost of building one, is not particularly suited for our task because the items to be disambiguated are verb-role pairs, as opposed to just verbs, and usually such knowledge bases do not handle individual thematic roles separately. For instance, it may be optimal to analyze serve as having three senses with respect to instruments, two senses with respect to patients, and one sense with respect to agents. Assigning semantic categories to the slots of a verb subcategorization frame harks back to work by Resnik (1996) and Rooth et al. (1999). Resnik's work presupposes predefined noun classes obtained from WordNet. Rooth et al. induced latent role-filler classes via expectation maximization. Erk et al. (2010) found that neither are good models of thematic fit. Pad´ o et al. (2009) provided thematic fit scores that take into account verb class using a supervised model. In the vector space context, inducing different vectors for multiple verb senses has been investigated recently by Reisinger and Mooney (2010), Huang et al. (2012), and Neelakantan et al. (2014), although these were not focused on rolefillers for verbs. Our contribution is to make use of a large-scale, unsupervised vector space model to provide thematic fit scores after inducing implicit verb sense classes relative to thematic role.

