all cases, a boundary is associated with the current word being an adverb or a noun. In the control data only, the tag IN, representing either a preposition or a subordinating clause, is also associated with a boundary. Although this seems counter-intuitive, an examination of the data reveals that in almost every case, this corresponds to the phrase happily ever after. The fact that this feature does not occur in the other PPA groups could indicate that the patients are less likely to use this phrase, but could also be due to our relatively high frequency cut-off. Another anomalous result is that the tag VB (verb, base form) is associated with a sentence boundary in the SD case only. Again, examples from the data suggest a probable explanation. In many cases, sentences ending with VB are actually statements about the difficulty of the task, rather than narrative content; e.g., that's all I can say, I can't recall, or I don't know. These statements are consistent with the word-finding difficulties that are a hallmark of SD. In the prosodic features, we see that long pauses and decreases in pitch and energy are associated with sentence boundaries in the news corpus. However, the results are mixed in the PPA data. This finding is consistent with our results in Section 5.1, and supports the conclusion of Cuendet et al. (2007) and Kol´ ar et al. (2009) that prosodic features are more useful in prepared than spontaneous speech. We now look briefly at the features which are associated with a non-boundary (Table 2b). Here we see more lexical features in the top 10, mostly function words and filled pauses. These features reflect the reasonable assumption that most sentences do not end with determiners, conjunctions, or subjective pronouns. One feature which occurs in the news data but not the PPA data is the next word being a modal verb (MD). This seems to be a result of the more frequent use of the future tense in the news stories (e.g. the senator will serve another term), in contrast to the Cinderella stories, which are generally told in the present or simple past tense.

is no significant difference between the manual and automatic segmentation are marked with "NS". Of course, we do not claim that there is actually no difference between the values, as can be seen in the table, but we use this as a threshold to determine which features are less affected by the automatic segmentation. All the features relating to Yngve depth and height of the parse trees are significantly different (in at least one of the three clinical groups). However, of the eight primary syntactic units calculated by Lu's SCA, six show no significant difference when measured on the automatically segmented transcripts. To examine this effect further, we will discuss how each of the eight is affected by the segmentation process. Although the number of sentences (S) is different, the number of clauses (C) is not significantly affected by the automatic segmentation, which implies that the boundaries are rarely placed within clauses, but rather between clauses. An example of this phenomenon is given in Example 1:
Manual: And then they go off to the ball and then she comes I dunno how she meets up with this um fairy godmother whatever. Auto: And then they go off to the ball. And then she comes I dunno how she meets up with this um fairy godmother whatever.

6

Complexity results

We first compare calculating the syntactic complexity metrics on the manually segmented transcripts and the automatically segmented transcripts. The results are given in Table 3. Metrics for which there 867

Our automatic method inserts a sentence boundary before the second and, breaking one sentence into two but not altering the number of clauses. In fact, the proposed boundary seems quite reasonable, although it does not agree with the human annotator. The correlation between the number of clauses counted in the manual and automatic transcripts is 0.99 in all three clinical groups. The counts for dependent clauses (DC) are also relatively unaffected by the automatic segmentation, for similar reasons. The T-unit count (T) is also not significantly affected by the automatic segmentation. Since a Tunit only contains one independent clause as well as any attached dependent clauses, this suggests that the segmentation generally does not separate dependent clauses from their independent clauses. This also helps explain the lack of difference on complex T-units (CT). Table 3 also indicates that the number of verb phrases (VP) and complex nominals (CN) is not significantly different in the automatically segmented

