Approximate information Ambiguous information Information not in the knowledge base

Earthquake in Honduras. So strong it strong it was felt in Guatemala as well. 7.1 offshore atlantic. DTN Indonesia: Peru Earthquake Destroys Homes, Injures 100... 6.9 magnitude earthquake rocks Peru. U.S.G.S. reports 6.9 Earthquake in Peru. NO TSUNAMI threat to Hawaii. #Earthquake M 7.0 ­ Ryukyu Islands, Japan T20:31:27 UTC , 25.95 128.40 depth: 22 km <USGS URL> Local tsunami alert issued

Table 1: Challenges and opportunities for event extraction from Twitter. The first row shows a tweet with approximate information (in bold); the correct magnitude is 7.3 (cf. Table 2). The second row shows a first tweet with ambiguous information, which leads our baseline model to extract the incorrect country (in bold; correct country is Peru). The following two tweets help disambiguate the context. The last row shows a tweet containing information (in bold) that is missing in the knowledge base.

ing data by aligning a knowledge base of known event instances with tweets (Mintz et al., 2009; Hoffmann et al., 2011), which is then used to train a supervised extraction model (sequence tagger in our case). In seminal work on event extraction, (Benson et al., 2011) applied DS to both detect tweets about local events and then extracted values about two arguments (artist and venue). In our work, we work on automatically selected tweets, and scale the task to complex events with a large number of arguments. We focus on the domain of earthquakes, where each event has up to 20 arguments. Table 2 summarizes this task. The contributions of this work are the following: 1. To our knowledge, this is one of the first works that analyzes the problem of distantly supervised extraction of complex events with many arguments from microblogs. 2. Our analysis shows (Section 3) that the biggest barrier is that information on Twitter can be inaccurate (containing approximately correct event argument values) and ambiguous (with insufficient context for accurate extraction). The top two blocks in Table 1 show an example of each. These challenges impact both evaluation and system development. 3. The analysis also highlights the need to adapt evaluation metrics to approximately correct infor642

mation, which may appear both in text and in the knowledge base itself. For example, for a particular earthquake, the USGS reports a depth of 22 km., while NOAA reports 25 km2 . We propose a new evaluation metric that gives partial credit to extracted argument values based on their similarity to existing values in the knowledge base. 4. We introduce two simple strategies that address the above barriers for system development: approximate matching, which addresses inaccurate values by allowing the distant supervision process to map values from the knowledge base to text even when they do not match exactly; and feature aggregation, which responds to small, ambiguous contexts by aggregating information across multiple tweets for the same event. For example, the first strategy considers the 7.1 magnitude in the first tweet in Table 1 as a training example because it is close to the value in the knowledge base (7.3). The second strategy classifies all instances of Peru jointly using a single set of features, extracted from all available tweets for the corresponding earthquake. For example, this feature set contains three values for the feature previous-word (:, rocks, and in). Each approach yields 19% relative improvement, 33% in combination. 5. We release a public dataset containing a knowledge base of earthquake instances and corresponding tweets for each earthquake3 .

2

Experimental framework

In this section we detail the creation of the knowledge base of earthquake events, the collection process for potentially-relevant tweets, and, lastly, our distant supervision framework, which serves as a platform for our contributions (Sections 5 and 6). 2.1 Knowledge base and tweet dataset creation

The knowledge base (KB) was created from the list of globally significant earthquakes during the 21st century, as reported by Wikipedia.4 We sehttp://bit.ly/aq9Vxa and http://1.usa. gov/1p1gELB 3 http://ixa.eus/Ixa/Argitalpenak/ Artikuluak/1425465524/publikoak/ earthquake-kb-dataset.zip 4 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ 21st-century_earthquakes. Accessed on July 9th,
2

