trivial problem in some cases, the problem is well studied, and many under-resourced languages have "phonographic" systems where orthography corresponds to phonology, rather than organically evolved written forms, which makes the mapping problem trivial. To illustrate the ease with which a language pair can be engineered, we applied our borrowing model to the French­Romanian language pair. Although French and Romanian are sister languages (both descending from Latin), about 12% of Romanian types are true French borrowings that came into the language in the past few centuries (Schulte, 2009). We employ the G LOBAL P HONE pronunciation dictionary for French (Schultz and Schlippe, 2014) (we convert it to IPA), and automatically construct a Romanian pronunciation dictionary using Omniglot grapheme-to-IPA conversion rules.

6

Experiments

Our experimental setup is defined as follows. The input to the borrowing model is a loanword candidate in Swahili/Romanian,8 the outputs are plausible donor words in the Arabic/French monolingual lexicon (i.e., any word in pronunciation dictionary). We train the borrowing model using a small set of training examples, and then evaluate it using a held-out test set. In the rest of this section we describe in detail our datasets, tools, and experimental results. Resources We employ Arabic­English and Swahili­English bitexts to extract a training set (corpora of sizes 5.4M and 14K sentence pairs, respectively), using a cognate discovery technique (Kondrak, 2001). Phonetically and semantically similar strings are classified as cognates; phonetic similarity is the string similarity between phonetic representations, and semantic similarly is approximated by translation.9 We thereby extract Arabic
Our model does not provide a mechanism for identifying loanwords in the recipient language; we only model the borrowing process. Classifying loanwords in the recipient language is an interesting but ultimately different problem: the ontological status of words in a lexicon is a difficult problem, even for human experts, however, knowledge of cross-lingual correspondences is a valuable feature, and as such, our work can be understood as enabling this. 9 This cognate discovery technique is sufficient to extract a small training set, but is not generally applicable, as it requires
8

and Swahili pairs a, s that are phonetically similar (a,s) ( min( |a|,|s|) < 0.5) where (a, s) is the Levenshtein distance between a and s and that are aligned to the same English word e. FastAlign (Dyer et al., 2013) is used for word alignments. Given an extracted word pair a, s , we also extract word pairs { a , s } for all proper Arabic words a which share the same lemma with a producing on average 33 Arabic types per Swahili type. We use MADA (Habash et al., 2009) for Arabic morphological expansion. From the resulting dataset of 490 extracted Arabic­ Swahili borrowing examples,10 we set aside randomly sampled 73 examples (15%) for evaluation,11 and use the remaining 417 examples for model parameter optimization. For French­Romanian language pair, we use an existing small annotated set of borrowing examples,12 with 282 training and 50 (15%) randomly sampled test examples. We use pyfst--a Python interface to OpenFst (Allauzen et al., 2007)--for the borrowing model implementation.13 Baselines We compare our model to several baselines. In the Levenshtein (L) distance baselines we chose the closest word (either surface or pronunciation-based). In the Levenshtein-weighted (L-W) baselines, we evaluate a variant of the Levenshtein distance tuned to identify cognates (Mann and Yarowsky, 2001; Kondrak and Sherif, 2006); this method was identified by Kondrak and Sherif (2006) among the top three cognate identification methods. In the CRF baselines we generate plausible "transliterations" of the input Swahili (or Romanian) words in the donor lexicon using the model of Ammar et al. (2012), with multiple references in a lattice and without reranking. The CRF transliteration model is a linear-chain CRF where we label each source character with a sequence of target characters. The features are label unigrams, label bigrams, and label
parallel corpora or manually constructed dictionaries to measure semantic similarity. Large parallel corpora are unavailable for most language pairs, including Swahili­English. 10 In each training/test example one Swahili word corresponds to all extracted Arabic donor words. 11 We manually verified that our test set contains clear Arabic­ Swahili borrowings. For example, we extract Swahili kusafiri, safari and Arabic , , (Alsfr, ysAfr, sfr) all aligned to `travel'. 12 http://wold.clld.org/vocabulary/8 13 https://github.com/vchahun/pyfst

603

