Incorporating saliency information via a context model is also a nice feature of the model. In this paper, we computed the initial P (I ) using a context model instantiated by SIUM. By considering only this saliency information, the context model can predict the referred object in 41% of the cases. It also learned which properties were important for saliency (that is, these are the properties that the model would most likely select): recently fixated, most gaze at, longest gazed at, prev ref, as might be expected. In less than 2% of the cases, the context model referred to the correct object, but was wrongly "overruled" when processing the corresponding RE. There were shortcomings, however. In previous work, it was shown that SIUM performed well when REs contained pronouns (see Kennington et al. (2013), experiment 2). However, in the current work we observed that REs with pronouns were more difficult for the model to resolve than the model presented in Iida et al. (2011). We surmise that SIUM had a difficult time grounding certain properties, as the Japanese pronoun sore can be used anaphorically or demonstratively in this kind of context (i.e., sometimes sore refers to previously-manipulated objects, or objects that are newly identified with a mouse pointer over them); the model presented in Iida et al. (2011) made more use of contextual information when pronouns were used, particularly in the combined model which incorporated gaze information, as shown above.

alised as properties) than previous work, those properties still need to be computed. We leave for future work investigation of a version of the model that can ground language with raw(er) information from the world (e.g., vision information), eliminating the need to determine properties. Acknowledgements Thanks to the anonymous reviewers for their excellent comments and suggestions.

References
Gregory Aist, James Allen, Ellen Campana, Carlos Gomez Gallo, Scott Stoness, and Mary Swift. 2007. Incremental understanding in human-computer dialogue and experimental evidence for advantages over nonincremental methods. In Pragmatics, volume 1, pages 149­154, Trento, Italy. Joyce Y Chai, Lanbo She, Rui Fang, Spencer Ottarson, Cody Littley, Changsong Liu, and Kenneth Hanson. 2014. Collaborative effort towards common ground in situated human-robot dialogue. In Proceedings of the 2014 ACM/IEEE international conference on Humanrobot interaction, pages 33­40, Bielefeld, Germany. Lin Chen and Barbara Di Eugenio. 2012. Co-reference via Pointing and Haptics in Multi-Modal Dialogues. In Proceedings of the 2012 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 523­527. Association for Computational Linguistics. Herbert H Clark and Deanna Wilkes-Gibbs. 1986. Referring as a collaborative process. Cognition, 22:1­39. Herbert H Clark. 1996. Using Language. Cambridge University Press. Kotaro Funakoshi, Mikio Nakano, Takenobu Tokunaga, and Ryu Iida. 2012. A Unified Probabilistic Approach to Referring Expressions. In Proceedings of the 13th Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 237­246, Seoul, South Korea, July. Association for Computational Linguistics. Dilek Hakkani-t¨ ur, Malcolm Slaney, Asli Celikyilmaz, and Larry Heck. 2014. Eye Gaze for Spoken Language Understanding in Multi-Modal Conversational Interactions. In ICMI. Stevan Harnad. 1990. The Symbol Grounding Problem. Physica D, 42:335­346. Peter a. Heeman and Graeme Hirst. 1995. Collaborating on Referring Expressions. Computational Linguistics, 21(3):32.

7

Conclusion

The SIUM is a model of RR that grounds language with the world, works incrementally, can incorporate modalities such as gaze and deixis, and can resolve multiple kinds of RRs in a single framework. This paper represents the natural next step in evaluating SIUM in a setting that was less constrained and more interactive, with added knowledge that it can work in more than one language. There is more to be tested for SIUM. A common form of RR happens collaboratively over multiple utterances (Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs, 1986; Heeman and Hirst, 1995), SIUM has only been tested on isolated REs. Though SIUM required fewer features (re280

