preferable to label a small portion of social reviews to perform semi-supervised learning, leveraging information from both labeled and unlabeled data. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to handle the above two challenges. We presents the LCCT Model (Lexicon-based and Corpus-based, Co-Training Model), which treats the lexicon-based information and the corpus-based information as two views, and combine them via co-training (Blum and Mitchell, 1998). The algorithm naturally incorporates the framework of semi-supervised learning, as missing labels in each view can be estimated by the classifier trained from the other view. The proposed LCCT model exploits the complementary performance associated with the lexicon-based and the corpus-based approaches, taking the best of each side to improve the overall performance. We present a novel semi-supervised sentiment-aware LDA approach to build the lexicon-based classifier, which uses a minimal set of seed words (e.g., "good","happy" as positive seeds) as well as document sentiment labels to construct a domain-specific sentiment lexicon. This model reflects the domainspecific knowledge. We employ the stacked denoising auto-encoder (Vincent et al., 2008; Glorot et al., 2011) to build the corpus-based classifier. As Glorot et al. (Glorot et al., 2011) point out, the intermediate abstractions extracted in this way tend to reflect the domain-independent knowledge, unifying information across all domains. Finally, we use a co-training algorithm to combine the corpus-based and lexiconbased classifiers and to combine the domain-specific knowledge and the domain-independent knowledge. The main contributions of our approach are threefolded. First, we propose a method that exploits both general domain-independent knowledge and specific domain-dependent knowledge, behaving like a human being when she analyzes the text. Second, we complement the lexicon-based approach and the corpus-based approach to overcome their respective classification biases. Third, our approach is capable of levering labeled and unlabeled data, unifying them into a semi-supervised learning framework. We conduct extensive experiments to verify the effectiveness of the proposed approach on real-world social reviews. The experiment results show that our model substantially outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in analyzing sentiments in online reviews. 547

2

Related Works

Sentiment analysis of natural language texts is an active research field. The papers by Pang and Lee (Pang and Lee, 2008) and Liu (Liu, 2012) describe most of the existing techniques for sentiment analysis and opinion mining. Sentiment analysis approaches can be categorized into lexicon-based approaches (Turney, 2002; Kennedy and Inkpen, 2006; Andreevskaia and Bergler, 2008) and corpus-based approaches (Pang et al., 2002; Blitzer et al., 2007; Wan, 2009). The lexicon-based approach uses a dictionary of opinion words (e.g., "good" and "bad") to identify the sentiment of a text. In contrast, the corpus-based approach can be seen as a statistical learning approach (Pang et al., 2002; Whitelaw et al., 2005; Wiebe and Riloff, 2005; Ye et al., 2009). The performance of corpus-based methods often degenerates when the labeled training data is insufficient. As we have discussed earlier, corpus-based algorithms are overly conservative on positive reviews, while lexicon-based approaches are overly aggressive on positive reviews. There are several literature integrating both methods (Kennedy and Inkpen, 2006; Andreevskaia and Bergler, 2008; Qiu et al., 2009; Zhang et al., 2011). These methods require either a complete lexicon or a fully labeled corpus being available, which might not be true in practice. The method in this paper, in contrast, uses incomplete lexicon and partially labeled corpus as training examples. On the other hand, there are semi-supervised methods in sentiment analysis which handle incomplete data (Wan, 2009; Dasgupta and Ng, 2009; Li et al., 2010; Zhou et al., 2010; Biyani et al., 2013). Nevertheless, none of them combines the lexiconbased and corpus-based approaches and thus they do not solve the bias problem in sentiment classification.

3

LCCT Model

In the LCCT model, we use a novel semi-supervised sentiment-aware LDA model to build the lexiconbased model. We use stacked denoising autoencoder (Vincent et al., 2008; Glorot et al., 2011) to build the corpus-based model. Finally, a cotraining algorithm is employed for semi-supervised

