Active Learning with Rationales for Text Classification
Manali Sharma, Di Zhuang and Mustafa Bilgic Department of Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology Chicago, IL USA {msharm11, dzhuang3}@hawk.iit.edu and mbilgic@iit.edu

Abstract
We present a simple and yet effective approach that can incorporate rationales elicited from annotators into the training of any offthe-shelf classifier. We show that our simple approach is effective for multinomial na¨ ive Bayes, logistic regression, and support vector machines. We additionally present an active learning method tailored specifically for the learning with rationales framework.

1

Introduction

and Chan, 1995), (Towell et al., 1990)), knowledgebased support vector machines (Fung et al., 2002), pooling multinomial na¨ ive Bayes (Melville and Sindhwani, 2009), incorporating constraints into the training of na¨ ive Bayes (Stumpf et al., 2007), and converting rationales and feature annotations into constraints for support vector machines (e.g., (Small et al., 2011) and (Zaidan et al., 2007)). Being classifier-specific limits their applicability when one wants to test a different classifier for his/her domain, necessitating an approach that can be utilized by several off-the-shelf classifiers. In this paper we present a simple and yet effective approach that can incorporate the elicited rationales in the form of feature annotations into the training of any off-the-shelf classifier. We empirically show that it is effective at incorporating rationales into the learning of na¨ ive Bayes, logistic regression, and support vector machines using four text categorization datasets. We further discuss a novel active learning strategy specifically geared towards the learning with rationales framework and empirically show that it improves over traditional active learning. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we provide a brief background on eliciting rationales in the context of active learning. In Section 3, we describe our approach for incorporating rationales into the training of classifiers and compare learning without rationales and learning with rationales. In Section 4, we present an active learning method using the learning with rationales framework and present relevant results. Finally, we discuss limitations and future work in Section 5, related work in Section 6, and conclude in Section 7.

Annotating documents for supervised learning is a tedious, laborious, and time consuming task for humans. Given huge amounts of unlabeled documents, it is impractical for annotators to go over each document and provide a label. To reduce the annotation time and effort, various approaches such as semi-supervised learning (Chapelle et al., 2006) that utilizes both labeled and unlabeled data, and active learning (Settles, 2012) that carefully chooses instances for annotation have been developed. To further minimize the human effort, recent work looked at eliciting domain knowledge, such as rationales and feature annotations, from the annotators instead of just the labels of documents. One of the bottlenecks in eliciting domain knowledge from annotators is that the traditional supervised learning approaches cannot readily handle the elicited rich feedback. To address this issue, many methods have been developed that are classifierspecific. Examples include knowledge-based neural networks (e.g., (Towell and Shavlik, 1994), (Girosi 441

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 441­451, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

