left corner of the plot. The effect of accommodating the spelling rules within the traditional orthography is illustrated by an arrow, which indicates an increase in morphemic consistency from 96.11 to 98.90. The A LG(L) system represents a version of the A LG system in which the IPA symbols are respelled using combinations of the 26 letters of the Roman alphabet, with the morpheme boundary symbol removed. This change, which is intended to make the comparison with the traditional orthography more interpretable, increases the orthographic perplexity from 1.33 to 1.58. Furthermore, we ensure that A LG(L) contains no homographs (which consitute 2.6% of the lexicon in A LG) by reverting to a traditional spelling of a morpheme if necessary. Since the respelling applies to all instances of that morpheme, it has no effect on the morphemic consistency, but results in a small increase of the orthographic perplexity to 1.61. The plot in Figure 2 shows that, even after accounting for the orthographic rules, traditional orthography does not surpass the level of morphemic consistency of A LG. With the same writing script and no homographs, A LG(L) is less than half the distance from the orthographic optimality. On the other hand, neither of the spelling reform proposals is substantially better overall than the traditional orthography. Inspection of the spellings generated by our algorithm reveals that it generally maintains consistent spellings of morphemes. In fact, it only makes a change from the underlying form in 3660 cases, or 7.2% of the words in the dictionary. Consider the morpheme transcribe, which is traditionally spelled as `transcrip' in transcription. Even if we disregard the final `e' by invoking the e-deletion spelling rule, the morphemic consistency in the traditional orthography is still violated by the `b'/`p' alternation. Our predictor, however, considers this a predictable devoicing assimilation change, which occurs in a number of words, including subscription and absorption. Consequently, the spellings generated by the algorithm preserve the morpheme's `b' ending in all words that contain it. In addition, the algorithm avoids spurious idiosyncrasies such as four/forty, which abound in traditional orthography. The spellings generated by the algorithm are also 544

93

94

MORPHEMIC OPTIMALITY

95

96

97

98

99

100

1

1.2

1.4

1.6

1.8

2

2.2

2.4

2.6

ORTHOGRAPHIC PERPLEXITY

T.O

Alg

SS

SR

IPA

Morph

+Rules

Alg(L)

Figure 2: Morphemic and orthographic optimality of various spelling systems.

much more phonemically transparent, particularly for vowels. Phonemically, A LG(L) improves on the traditional orthography mostly by making the spelling more predictable, For example, `a' represents the phoneme [æ] in 91.7% of the cases in the generated spellings, as opposed to only 36.5% in traditional orthography.

9

Conclusion

We have analyzed English orthography in terms of morphemic consistency and phonemic transparency. According to the strict interpretation of morphemic consistency, traditional orthography is closer to the level of a phonemic transcription than to that of a morphemic concatenation. Even if orthographic rules are assumed to operate cost-free as a preprocessing step, the orthographic perplexity of traditional orthography remains high. While phonemic transparency and morphemic consistency are at odds with each other, we have provided a constructive proof that it is possible to create a spelling system for English that it is substantially closer to theoretical optimality than the traditional orthography, even when it is constrained by the traditional character set. This contradicts the claim that English orthography is near optimal.

