ated parse trees, thus presenting the first end-to-end Chinese zero pronoun resolver. These approaches are mostly complementary to our task, since they focus on resolving anaphoric zero pronouns (the minority!) while we focus on resolving deictic non-anaphoric zero pronouns. In particular, for an end-to-end system that resolves both deictic and anaphoric zero pronouns, one could first take our approach and whenever our model predicts "third person," which is often an anaphoric reference, one could apply one of these prior approaches for further reference resolution. The only work we are aware of that does not require linguistically annotated data for zero pronoun resolution is that of (Chen and Ng, 2014). They hypothesize that zero pronouns and overt pronouns have similar distributions, and train an unsupervised model on overt pronouns and then apply this model to zero pronouns. This model performs on par with their previous (2013) supervised model. Despite this, their unsupervised model only agrees with their supervised model on 55% of zero pronoun antecedents, suggesting that this hypothesis is weak. In particular, the complementarity of zero versus overt pronoun usage has been studied within various domains of linguistics. The Position of Antecedent Hypothesis (Carminati, 2002) states that null and overt pronouns have different antecedent selection preferences: null pronouns prefer antecedents in subject positions, while overt pronouns prefer antecedents in non-subject positions. This hypothesis has been supported by studies in a variety of prodrop languages (e.g., (Alonso-Ovalle et al., 2002) (Kweon, 2011)). Switching of reference has been identified as one of the main constraints regulating use of zero versus overt pronouns in the variationist literature (see (Cameron, 1992) for sociolinguistic studies of the phenomenon in Spanish). The importance of topically-coherent discourse sequences-- and the role of linguistic and extralinguistic indicators of such sequences--has also been examined in child language acquisition, e.g., (Rohde and Frank, 2014). Our main result shows that although our bronze standard labels are noisy (Section 4.3), they are nonetheless useful for learning to resolve deictic pronouns. Moreover, one oft-heralded advantage of the translation-as-annotation scheme (Carpuat and 502

Wu, 2007) is that it naturally integrates into a machine translation framework, since one is learning to predict precisely what is necessary for successful translation; evaluating whether this hypothesis is true is currently an open question. One limitation of our approach is the coarseness of the labeling granularity (1p, 2p, 3p). Our ultimate plan is to provide all possibilities (e.g., both singular and plural for 1p, weighted) to a machine translation system, and let other components (e.g., language model) determine selection. For now, we believe that there is significant value in intrinsic evaluation of our approach for a problem that has not previously received significant attention.

Acknowledgments
This research was supported in part by the BOLT program of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Contract No. HR0012-12-C-0015. Any opinions, findings, conclusions or recommendations expressed in this paper are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the view of DARPA. The authors would like to thank three anonymous reviewers for providing helpful comments and also acknowledge people from Computational Linguistics and Information Processing (CLIP) lab at University of Maryland for helpful discussions.

References
[Alonso-Ovalle et al.2002] Luis Alonso-Ovalle, Susana Fern´ andez-Solera, Lyn Frazier, and Charles Clifton. 2002. Null vs. overt pronouns and the topic-focus articulation in Spanish. Journal of Italian Linguistics, 14:151­170. [Cai et al.2011] Shu Cai, David Chiang, and Yoav Goldberg. 2011. Language-independent parsing with empty elements. In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies: short papersVolume 2, pages 212­216. Association for Computational Linguistics. [Cameron1992] Richard Cameron. 1992. Pronominal and null subject variation in Spanish: Constraints, dialects, and functional compensation. Ph.D. thesis, University of Pennsylvania. [Carminati2002] Maria Nella Carminati. 2002. The processing of Italian subject pronouns. Ph.D. thesis, University of Massachusetts at Amherst. [Carpuat and Wu2007] Marine Carpuat and Dekai Wu.

