input and can be mapped to event arguments a priori. Matching sub-events with only one protein argument would be too noisy without direct supervision on triggers. We thus consider matching minimum sub-events with two protein arguments. Specifically, we preprocessed complex events in K to identify minimum logical forms containing two protein arguments from each complex event, where arguments not directly leading to either protein are skipped. For example, the complex event in Figure 1 would generate three sub-events: (NEG-REG,IL-10,RFLAT), (POS-REG,BCL,(NEG-REG,-,RFLAT)), (POS-REG,BCL,(NEG-REG,IL-10,-)), where - signifies underspecification. We denote the set of such sub-events as S (K ). Likewise, given a semantic parse z , for every protein pair in z , we would convert the minimum semantic parse subtree spanning the two proteins into the canonical logical form and compare it with elements in S (K ). If the minimum subtree contains NULL, either in an event or argument state, it signifies a non-event and would be ignored. Otherwise, the canonical form is derived by collapsing RAISING states. For example, in both Figure 2 (b) and (c), the minimum subtree spanning the proteins IL-10 and RFLAT is converted into the same logical form of (NEG-REG,IL-10,RFLAT). We denote the set of such logical forms as E (z ). Formally, the virtual evidence in GUSPEE are: K (z ) = exp
eE (z )

3.4

Efficient Learning with Virtual Evidence

 (e, K )

where  (e, K ) =  : e  S (K ) - : e  / S (K )

In distant supervision, where z is simply a binary relation, it is trivial to evaluate K (z ). (In fact, the original distant supervision algorithm is exactly equivalent to this form, with  = .) In GUSPEE, however, z is a semantic parse and evaluating E (z ) and  (e, K ) involves a global factor that does not decompose into local dependencies as the tree HMM P (z, t). The naive way to compute the augmented likelihood (Section 3.1) is thus intractable. 760

To render learning tractable, the key idea is to augment the local event and argument states so that they contain sufficient information for evaluating K (z ). Specifically, the semantic state z (ni ) needs to represent not only the semantic assignment to ni (e.g., a NEG-REG event trigger), but also the set of (possibly incomplete) sub-events in the subtree under ni . We accomplished this by representing the semantic paths from ni to proteins in the subtree. For example, in Figure 2 (b), the augmented state of "inhibition" would be (NEG-REGTHEMERFLAT, NEG-REGCAUSEIL-10). To facilitate canonicalization and sub-event comparison, a path containing NULL will be skipped, and RAISING will be collapsed. E.g., in Figure 2(c), the augmented state of "ability" would become (NEG-REGTHEMERFLAT, NEG-REGCAUSEIL-10). With these augmented states, K (z ) decomposes into local factors. The proteins under ni are known a priori, as well as the children containing them. Semantic paths from ni to proteins can thus be computed by imposing consistency constraints for each child. Namely, for child nj that contains protein p, the semantic path from ni to p should result from combining z (ni ), z (di,j ), and the semantic path from nj to p. The minimum sub-events spanning two proteins under ni , if any, can be derived from the semantic paths in the augmented state. Note that if both proteins come from the same child nj , the pair needs not be considered at ni , as their minimum spanning sub-event, if any, would be under nj and already be factored in there. The number of augmented states is O(sp ), and the number of sub-event evaluations is O(s · p2 ), where s is the number of distinct semantic paths, and p is the number of proteins in the subtree. Below, we show how s, p can be constrained to reasonable ranges to make computation efficient. First, consider s. The number of semantic paths is theoretically unbounded since a path can be arbitrarily long. However, semantic paths contained in a database event are bounded in length and can be precomputed from the database (the maximum in GENIA is four). Longer paths can be represented by a special dummy path signifying that they

