Extraction Pattern  Examples of Matched Queries Passive constructs: H [VBN|VBD|VBG] [<anything>] M [<anything>]  (plants)H grown in (zone 7)M  (supreme court justices)H born in (new jersey)M  (medicinal plants)H used as (ayurvedic)M drugs  (manipulatives)H used in (elementary math)M Prepositional constructs: H [IN|TO] [<anything>] M [<anything>]  (plants)H for (zone 7)M  (justices)H of the (california supreme court)M  (medicinal plants)H in (ayurvedic)M products  (math manipulatives)H for (elementary)M level Relative pronoun constructs: H [that|who|which] [<anything>] M [<anything>]  (plants)H that grow in (zone 7)M  (animals)H who live in (water)M  (medicinal plants)H that are used in (ayurveda)M  (math manipulatives)H that are taught in the (elementary)M classroom

Table 1: Extraction patterns matched against queries to identify candidate interpretations (H , M =head and modifier of a hypothetical noun phrase)

passive, prepositional or relative-pronoun construct, followed by another ngram M , and optionally followed by other tokens. The ngrams H and M contain one or more tokens. The patterns effectively split matching queries into four consecutive sequences of tokens Q=[Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 ], where H and M correspond to Q1 and Q3 , and Q4 may be empty. For example, the pattern in the lower portion of Table 1 matches the query "(plants)H that grow in (zone 7)M ", which is one of the queries shown in the upper portion of Figure 1. Mapping Noun Phrases to Interpretations: Each noun phrase to interpret is split into all possible decompositions of two consecutive sequences of tokens N =[N1 N2 ], where the two sequences correspond to a hypothetical modifier and a hypothetical head of the noun phrase. For example, the noun phrase "zone 7 plants" is split into ["zone", "7 plants"] and separately into ["zone 7", "plants"]. If N1 and Q3 , and N2 and Q1 respectively, match, then the matching query Q (e.g., "(plants)H that grow in (zone 7)M ") is retained as a candidate interpretation of the noun phrase N ("(zone 7)M (plants)H "), as shown in the middle portion of Figure 1. Mapping via Modifier Variants: At its simplest, the matching of the hypothetical modifier relies on strict string matching. Alternatively, original modifiers in the noun phrases to interpret may be matched 337

to queries via expansion variants. Variants are phrases that likely play the same role, and therefore share interpretations, as modifiers relative to the head in a noun phrase. Variants allow for the extraction of candidate interpretations that may otherwise not be available in the input data. For example, in Figure 1, the variant new jersey available for california allows for the matching of california in the noun phrase "(california)M (supreme court justices)H ", with new jersey in the query "(supreme court justices)H born in (new jersey)M ". The candidate interpretation "(supreme court justices)H born in (california)M " is extracted for the noun phrase "(california)M (supreme court justices)H ", even though the query "supreme court justices born in california" is not present among the input queries. Possible sources of variants include distributionally similar phrases (Lin and Wu, 2009), where the phrases most similar to a modifier would act as its variants. Mappings from adjectival modifiers in noun phrases (e.g., aquatic in "aquatic animals" in Figure 1) into the nominal counterparts (e.g., water) that are likely to occur in interpretations (e.g., "(animals)H who live in (water)M ") are also useful. Concretely, as described later in Section 3, variants are generated using WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998), distributional similarities and Wikipedia. Aggregation of Candidate Interpretations: Candidate interpretations of a noun phrase are aggregated from source queries that matched the noun phrase. The frequency score of a candidate interpretation is the weighted sum of the frequencies of source queries from which the candidate interpretation is collected, possibly via variants of modifiers. In the weighted sum, the weights are similarity scores between the original modifier from the noun phrase, on one hand, and the variant from the source query into which the modifier was mapped, on the other hand. For example, in Figure 1, the frequency score of the candidate interpretation "(plants)H that grow in (zone 7)M " for the noun phrase "(zone 7)M (plants)H " is the weighted sum of the frequencies of the source queries "plants that grow in zone 7" and "plants that grow in zone 11". The weights for the variants zone 7 and zone 11 relative to the original modifier zone 7 may be 1.0 (identity) and 0.8 (distributional similarity), whereas the weights of adjectival modifiers such as water for aquatic may be 1.0. Separately from the frequency score, a penalty score is computed that penalizes interpretations containing extraneous tokens. Specifically, the penalty counts

