noun phrases with extracted interpretations. The top interpretation is deemed relevant for more than 70% of the noun phrases. Applications: The extracted interpretations can serve as a bridge connecting class labels and facts. Relevant interpretations allow one to potentially derive missing facts (<general electric, listed in, fortune 500>) from existing class labels (<general electric, fortune 500 companies>) and vice versa. In addition, relevant interpretations of class labels are themselves class labels inferred for the same instances. Examples are <general electric, companies listed in fortune 500>, or <general electric, companies in fortune 500>, based on <general electric, fortune 500 companies>. If the input class labels are organized hierarchically (<fortune 500 companies, companies>), interpretations explain why more specific class labels ("fortune 500 companies", "german companies", "dow jones industrial average companies", "french companies") do not merely belong under more general ones ("companies"), but do so along shared interpretations (companieslisted in{fortune 500, dow jones industrial average companies}; vs. {companiesfrom{germany, france}); and, more generally, aid in the better understanding of noun phrases.

Query logs Queries animals living in coral reef animals living in freshwater animals living in water animals that grow in water animals who live in water plants that grow in zone 11 plants that grow in zone 7 plants that grow well in zone 7 plants for zone 10 plants for zone 7 plants for planting zone 10 plants for planting zone 7 justices of the australian high court justices of the california supreme court justices of the washington state supreme court supreme court justices in ohio supreme court justices in oregon supreme court justices in washington state justices of the warren court supreme court justices from new hampshire supreme court justices born in new jersey justices of the vermont supreme court Variants (siblings) aquatic water water coral reef freshwater wetland pond water freshwater air coral reef zone 7 zone 10 zone 11 zone 6 zone 8 california california supreme court

oregon washington state supreme court new hampshire vermont supreme court new jersey warren court ohio Source queries animals living in coral reef animals living in freshwater animals living in water Source queries animals who live in water Source queries plants that grow in zone 7 plants that grow in zone 11 Source queries justices of the california supreme court justices of the australian high court justices of the washington state supreme court justices of the warren court Source queries supreme court justices born in new jersey

Noun phrase aquatic animals Noun phrase water animals Noun phrase zone 7 plants

Noun phrase california supreme court justices

2

Interpreting Noun Phrases

Candidate interpretations for noun phrases aquatic animals (animals)H living in (water)M (animals)H who live in (water)M water animals (animals)H living in (water)M (animals)H who live in (water)M zone 7 plants (plants)H that grow in (zone 7)M california supreme court justices (justices)H of the (california supreme court)M (supreme court justices)H born in (california)M

Hypothesis: Let N be a compound noun phrase, containing a head H preceded by modifiers M . Each of H and M may contain one or multiple tokens. Being a compound, the sequence of modifiers and head in N act as a single noun (Downing, 1977; Hendrickx et al., 2013). If N is relevant and of interest to Web users, then in a sufficiently large corpus it will eventually be referred to in relatively more verbose search queries, which explain the implicit role that modifiers M play relative to the head H . Acquisition from Queries: To illustrate the intuition above, consider the noun phrases "water animals" and "zone 7 plants". If enough Web users are interested in the concepts represented by these noun phrases, then the phrases are likely to be submitted as search queries. In addition, some Web users seeking similar information are likely to submit queries that make the role of the modifiers water and zone 7 explicit, such as "animals living in water" or "plants that grow in zone 7". As illustrated in Figure 1, the extraction method 336

Figure 1: Overview of extraction of interpretations of noun phrases from Web search queries

proposed in this paper takes as input a vocabulary of noun phrases, as well as a set of anonymized queries from which possible interpretations for the noun phrases must be extracted. The extraction consists of several steps: (1) the selection of a subset of queries that may be candidate interpretations of some yet-tobe-specified noun phrases; (2) the matching of the selected queries to the noun phrases to interpret; and (3) the aggregation of matched queries into candidate interpretations extracted for a noun phrase. Queries as Candidate Interpretations: The input queries are matched against the extraction patterns from Table 1. The use of targeted patterns in information extraction has been suggested before (Hearst, 1992; Fader et al., 2011). In our case, the patterns match queries that start with an arbitrary ngram H , followed by what is likely a

