Interpreting Compound Noun Phrases Using Web Search Queries

Marius Pas ¸ca Google Inc. 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway Mountain View, California 94043 mars@google.com

Abstract
A weakly-supervised method is applied to anonymized queries to extract lexical interpretations of compound noun phrases (e.g., "fortune 500 companies"). The interpretations explain the subsuming role ("listed in") that modifiers (fortune 500) play relative to heads (companies) within the noun phrases. Experimental results over evaluation sets of noun phrases from multiple sources demonstrate that interpretations extracted from queries have encouraging coverage and precision. The top interpretation extracted is deemed relevant for more than 70% of the noun phrases.

companies") and facts (<general electric, founded in, 1892>) extracted from text. But the class labels tend to be extracted, maintained and used separately from facts. Beyond organizing the class labels hierarchically (Kozareva and Hovy, 2010), the meaning of a class label is rarely explored (Nastase and Strube, 2008), nor is it made available downstream to applications using the extracted data. Contributions: The method introduced in this paper is the first to exploit Web search queries to uncover the semantics of open-domain class labels in particular; and of compound noun phrases in general. The method extracts candidate, lexical interpretations of compound noun phrases from queries. The interpretations turn implicit properties or subsuming roles ("listed in", "from", "made by") that modifiers (fortune 500, italian, victorinox) play within longer noun phrases ("fortune 500 companies", "italian composers", "victorinox knives") into explicit strings. The roles of modifiers relative to heads of noun phrase compounds cannot be characterized in terms of a finite list of possible compounding relationships (Downing, 1977). Hence, the interpretations are not restricted to a closed, pre-defined set. Experimental results over evaluation sets of noun phrases from multiple sources demonstrate that interpretations can be extracted from queries for a significant fraction of the input noun phrases. Without relying on syntactic analysis, extracted interpretations induce implicit bracketings over the interpreted noun phrases. The bracketings reveal the multiple senses, some of which are more rare but still plausible, in which the same noun phrase can be sometimes explained. The quality of interpretations is encouraging, with at least one interpretation deemed relevant among the top 3 retrieved for 77% of the

1

Introduction

Motivation: Semantic classes of interest to Web users are often expressed as lexical class labels (e.g., "fortune 500 companies", "italian composers", "victorinox knives"). Each class label hints at the implicit properties shared among its instances (e.g., general electric, gaetano donizetti, swiss army jetsetter respectively). Class labels allow for the organization of instances into hierarchies, which in turn allows for the systematic development of knowledge repositories. This motivates research efforts to acquire as many relevant class labels of instances as possible, which have received particular emphasis (Wang and Cohen, 2009; Dalvi et al., 2012; Flati et al., 2014). The efforts are part of the larger area of extracting open-domain facts and relations (Banko et al., 2007; Hoffart et al., 2013; Yao and Van Durme, 2014), ultimately delivering richer results in Web search. Different methods can associate instances (general electric) with both class labels ("fortune 500 335

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 335­344, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

