References
Eugene Charniak and Mark Johnson. 2001. Edit Detection and Parsing for Transcribed Speech. In Proceedings of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Anne Cutler, Delphine Dahan, and Wilma van Donselaar. 1997. Prosody in the Comprehension of Spoken Language: A Literature Review. Language and Speech, 40(2):141­201. Markus Dreyer and Izhak Shafran. 2007. Exploiting Prosody for PCFGs with Latent Annotations. In Proceedings of Interspeech. John Duchi, Elad Hazan, and Yoram Singer. 2011. Adaptive Subgradient Methods for Online Learning and Stochastic Optimization. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 12:2121­2159, July. Kevin Gimpel and Noah A. Smith. 2010. SoftmaxMargin CRFs: Training Log-Linear Models with Cost Functions. In Proceedings of the North American Chapter for the Association for Computational Linguistics. Peter Heeman and James Allen. 1994. Detecting and Correcting Speech Repairs. In Proceedings of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Julia Hirschberg and Mary E. Beckman. 1992. The tobi annotation conventions. Online at http://www.cs.columbia.edu/ julia/files/conv.pdf. Matthew Honnibal and Mark Johnson. 2014. Joint Incremental Disfluency Detection and Dependency Parsing. Transactions of the Association of Computational Linguistics ­ Volume 2, Issue 1, pages 131­142. Zhongqiang Huang and Mary Harper. 2010. Appropriately Handled Prosodic Breaks Help PCFG Parsing. In Proceedings of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Mark Johnson and Eugene Charniak. 2004. A TAGbased Noisy-channel Model of Speech Repairs. In Proceedings of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Jeremy G. Kahn, Matthew Lease, Eugene Charniak, Mark Johnson, and Mari Ostendorf. 2005. Effective Use of Prosody in Parsing Conversational Speech. In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Joungbum Kim, Sarah E Schwarm, and Mari Ostendorf. 2004. Detecting Structural Metadata with Decision Trees and Transformation-Based Learning. In Proceedings of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Yang Liu, Elizabeth Shriberg, and Andreas Stolcke. 2003. Automatic Disfluency Identification in Conversational Speech Using Multiple Knowledge Sources. In Proceedings of Eurospeech.

Yang Liu, E. Shriberg, A. Stolcke, D. Hillard, M. Ostendorf, and M. Harper. 2006. Enriching Speech Recognition with Automatic Detection of Sentence Boundaries and Disfluencies. Transactions of Audio, Speech and Language Processing, 14(5):1526­1540, September. Slav Petrov, Leon Barrett, Romain Thibaux, and Dan Klein. 2006. Learning Accurate, Compact, and Interpretable Tree Annotation. In Proceedings of the Conference on Computational Linguistics and the Association for Computational Linguistics. Xian Qian and Yang Liu. 2013. Disfluency Detection Using Multi-step Stacked Learning. In Proceedings of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Mohammad Sadegh Rasooli and Joel Tetreault. 2013. Joint Parsing and Disfluency Detection in Linear Time. In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Andrew Rosenberg. 2010. AuToBI - A Tool for Automatic ToBI Annotation. In Proceedings of Interspeech. Sunita Sarawagi and William W. Cohen. 2004. SemiMarkov Conditional Random Fields for Information Extraction. In Proceedings of Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. Elizabeth Shriberg, Rebecca Bates, and Andreas Stolcke. 1997. A Prosody-only Decision-tree Model for Disfluency Detection. In Proceedings of Eurospeech. Kim Silverman, Mary Beckman, John Pitrelli, Mari Ostendorf, Colin Wightman, Patti Price, Janet Pierrehumbert, and Julia Hirschberg. 1992. ToBI: A Standard for Labeling English Prosody. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Spoken Language Processing. Matthew Snover, Bonnie Dorr, and Richard Schwartz. 2004. A Lexically-Driven Algorithm for Disfluency Detection. In Proceedings of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Ann Taylor, Mitchell Marcus, and Beatrice Santorini. 2003. The penn treebank: An overview.

262

