of these small units of text makes them so powerful. Our goal is two-fold: on the one hand we want to have a principled understanding of character ngrams that will inform their use as features for AA and other tasks; on the other hand we want to make AA approaches more accessible to non-experts so that, for example, they could be acceptable pieces of evidence in criminal cases. The research questions we aim to answer are:  Are all character n-grams equally important? For example, are the prefix of `there', the suffix of `breathe' and the whole word `the' all equivalent? More generally, are character n-grams that capture morpho-syntactic information, thematic information and style information equally important?  Are the character n-grams that are most important for single-domain settings also the most important for cross-domain settings? Which character n-grams are more like bag-of-words features (which tend to track topics), and which are more like stylistic features (which tend to track authors)?  Do different classifiers agree on the importance of the different types of character n-grams? Are some character n-grams consistently the best regardless of the learning algorithm?  Are some types of character n-grams irrelevant in AA tasks? Are there categories of character n-grams that we can exclude and get similar (or better) performance than using all n-grams? If there are, are they the same for both singledomain and cross-domain AA settings? Our study shows that using the default bag-ofwords representation of char n-grams results in collapsing sequences of characters that correspond to different linguistic aspects, and that this yields suboptimal prediction performance. We further show that we can boost accuracy by loosing some categories of n-grams. Char n-grams closely related to thematic content can be completely removed without loss of accuracy, even in cases where the train and test sets have the same topics represented, a counter-intuitive argument. Given the wide spread use of char n-grams 94

in text classification tasks, our findings have significant implications for future work in related areas.

2

Categories of Character N -grams

To answer our research questions and explore the value of character n-grams in authorship attribution, we propose to separate character n-grams into ten distinct categories. Unlike previous AA work where all character n-grams were combined into a single bagof-n-grams, we evaluate each category separately to understand its behavior and effectiveness in AA tasks. These categories are related to the three linguistic aspects hypothesized to be represented by character n-grams: morpho-syntax (as represented by affix-like n-grams), thematic content (as represented by word-like n-grams) and style (as represented by punctuation-based n-grams). We refer to these three aspects as super categories (SC). The following sections describe the different types of n-grams. We use the sentence in Table 1 as a running example for the classes and in Table 2 we show the resulting n-grams in that sentence. For ease of understanding, we replace spaces in n-grams with underscores ( ).
The actors wanted to see if the pact seemed like an old-fashioned one. Table 1: Example sentence to demonstrate the selection of different n-gram categories.

2.1

Affix n-grams

Character n-grams are generally too short to represent any deep syntax, but some of them can reflect morphology to some degree. In particular, we consider the following affix-like features by looking at n-grams that begin or end a word: prefix A character n-gram that covers the first n characters of a word that is at least n + 1 characters long. suffix A character n-gram that covers the last n characters of a word that is at least n + 1 characters long. space-prefix A character n-gram that begins with a space.

