were instructed to keep only the main proposition in the SCU as the label, ignoring any attributions or other types of content. See Table 1. Once annotation is complete, the SCUs are ranked based on their frequency across all of the summaries, as shown by the Tier in Fig. 5, which includes data from the two summaries in Fig. 4.
Contributor S1 points to the trend to legalize gay marriage in western countries such as Netherlands, Belgium, and most of Canada S1 refutes this assertion, citing a number of countries which recognize same-sex marriage. He states the US is more similar to Anglo nations and in many of those gay marriage is legal. A number of countries recognize samesex marriage.

and adjectives. After generating all pairwise combinations within a cluster, this approach yielded 1131 argument pairs used in the Mechanical Turk AFS task. See Fig. 2c.
Instructions We would like you to classify each of the following sets of pairs based on your perception of how SIMILAR the arguments are, on the following scale, examples follow. (5) Completely equivalent, mean pretty much exactly the same thing, using different words. (4) Mostly equivalent, but some unimportant details differ. One argument may be more specific than another or include a relatively unimportant extra fact. (3) Roughly equivalent, but some important information differs or is missing. This includes cases where the argument is about the same FACET but the authors have different stances on that facet. (2) Not equivalent, but share some details. For example, talking about the same entities but making different arguments (different facets) (1) Not equivalent, but are on same topic (0) On a different topic Facet: A facet is a low level issue that often reoccurs in many arguments in support of the author's stance or in attacking the other author's position. There are many ways to argue for your stance on a topic. For example, in a discussion about the death penalty you may argue in favor of it by claiming that it deters crime. Alternatively, you may argue in favor of the death penalty because it gives victims of the crimes closure. On the other hand you may argue against the death penalty because some innocent people will be wrongfully executed or because it is a cruel and unusual punishment. Each of these specific points is a facet. For two utterances to be about the same facet, it is not necessary that the authors have the same belief toward the facet. For example, one author may believe that the death penalty is a cruel and unusual punishment while the other one attacks that position. However, in order to attack that position they must be discussing the same facet.

Contributor Contributor Label

Table 1: A sample label after removing the attributions from the SCU contributors. S4: SCUs to clusters. The pyramid structure directly reflects the content that the annotators deem most important in the original dialog. We are interested in the content that bubbles to the top across all the dialogs. We take the Tier 3 and above SCUs as our CENTRAL PROPOSITIONS, and extract the labels of those SCUs. This gives a total of 329 SCU labels. In what follows we treat a cluster of CENTRAL PROPOSITIONS as a FACET label, just as a synset concept in WordNet is labeled by its members. The purpose of AFS, then, is to provide a similarity metric on these SCU labels. As described below (and sketched in Fig. 2c), we used Mechanical Turk to provide similarity scores between pairs of SCU central propositions. Although, in principle, we could have asked about all possible pairs of the 329 CENTRAL PROPOSITIONS, most pairs are likely to be unrelated, and so we used an initial clustering algorithm to help reduce the work and cost. To group similar arguments, we performed clustering across our 329 labels. We performed Agglomerative Clustering using Scikit-learn (Agg Clustering in Fig. 2c). (Pedregosa et al., 2011). It recursively merges the pair of clusters that minimally increases a given linkage distance. We used cosine similarity as the distance measure with average linkage criteria. To focus on topic-specific cues, the clustering was performed using only nouns, verbs 433

Figure 6: Instructions for AFS MT HIT. S5: MT Argument Facet Similarity HIT. Fig. 6 shows the instructions defining AFS for the MT HIT. Inspired by the scale used for STS, we collected annotations on a 6 point scale. One crucial difference in our formulation was a desire to capture similarity in FACET and argument simultaneously. The use of the value 3 for `same FACET, contradictory stance' was a well-thought decision in the definition of AFS.

