firms previous analyses that have shown that the distribution of objects is more sensitive to verb sense than subjects. kClusters outperforming OneBest in a majority of cases suggests that clustering has successfully smoothed the top role-fillers, thus capturing sense-like patterns in the verb-roles. As an example of the effect of the kClusters method, we obtained the following top 20 instrument-fillers for the verb "eat" in 4 clusters using TypeDM : · gusto, relish · family, friend · chopstick, finger, fork, hand, knife, spoon · appetite, bread, butter, cheese, food, meal, meat, mouth, rice, sauce The V RC method selected 7 to 9 clusters a little more often than 3 to 6, which is perhaps more clusters than the number of senses we could expect from a task general knowledge base. We can see from this example that the four clusters do not all correspond to separate senses, but instead, they rather nicely separate out noise from true instruments. Note that since these role-fillers came from TypeDM , they appeared as the object of "with," as a proxy for finding instruments. The true instruments ended up all in the third cluster, which created a cluster centroid that is less affected by noise and errors from the syntactic or semantic parse. So, the higher number of senses seems appropriate for this task and data. We attribute the differences in results between the Pad´ o (2007) and McRae et al. (1998) datasets to the differences in how these datasets were constructed. First, the Pad´ o (2007) dataset contains only frequent verbs and most, but not all, of the verbrole pairs contain well-fitting and poorly-fitting rolefillers. The latter point is especially important because if the range of human judgements is small for a certain verb, then it is much more difficult to achieve a large  value regardless of the general performance level of the system. McRae et al. (1998), however, selected role-fillers much more automatically for their psycholinguistic study, so the data points do not necessarily reflect a typical sample of thematic role fitness decisions that occur in naturalistic language samples. So, it makes sense that 29

the McRae et al. (1998)  values are systematically lower than those of Pad´ o (2007). In fact, the Pad´ o (2007)  values approach the ceiling of 0.6 as approximated by the supervised system. Lastly, the effect of clustering was larger on instruments and locations than on agents and patients. A possible explanation is that instruments and locations are less-precisely defined thematic roles and better explained by several subclasses, i.e. clusters. In addition it could be that clustering helps to combat SRL inconsistencies.

6

Conclusions and future work

We show that clustering verb-roles into "senses" within a vector space framework achieves a higher correlation with human judgements on thematic fit over pure Centroid and OneBest methods. While we demonstrated this using the Distributional Memory technique by Baroni and Lenci (2010), the method will also be applicable to other vector space models. This task has also been useful for comparing among DM models and the different thematic fit datasets. In particular, we can qualitatively evaluate how reliable syntax can be for determining the semantic notion of thematic fit, and the relative strength of human intuitions on verb-imposed restrictions on the various roles (agent, patient, instrument, and location). In future work, we can investigate more sophisticated methods of vector clustering (such as expectation maximization and non-negative matrix factorization), interactions with verb and noun frequency, and interactions with number of word senses from a task-general knowledge-base such as WordNet. It would be especially useful to evaluate this system of a dataset of human judgements with verbs that systematically vary in polysemy, as this would more clearly expose the general trends we wish to model computationally.

Acknowledgments
This research was funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG) as part of SFB 1102: "Information Density and Linguistic Encoding." Also, the authors wish to thank the three anonymous reviewers whose valuable ideas contributed to this paper.

