complete sentences and fewer disfluencies. However, it is interesting to note that performance on the PNFA and SD groups is not much worse. All three data sets achieved the best results when trained with all feature types. This suggests that standard methods of sentence segmentation for spontaneous speech can be effective on PPA speech as well. Looking at the PPA and control groups with other feature sets, we see that POS features are more important in the PNFA and SD groups than they are for the control data. A closer look at the transcripts shows us that the PPA participants tend to connect independent clauses with a conjunction more frequently than control participants, and independent clauses are often separated in the manual segmentation. This means that many sentence boundaries in the PPA data are marked by conjunctions. This is discussed further in the next section. When considering the prosodic and lexical feature sets individually, we see that performance is similar in all three cases (control, SD, and PNFA). However, when we combine prosodic and lexical features together, the performance in the control case increases by a much larger margin than in the two aphasic cases. This suggests that control participants combine words and prosody in a manner that is more predictive of sentence boundaries than in the aphasic case. 5.2 Important features In Table 2, we report the 10 features in each data set which are most strongly associated with a boundary or a non-boundary. We consider only the small news corpus, for a fair comparison with the PPA data. The POS tags shown are the output of the NLTK part of speech tagger, which uses the Penn Treebank Tag Set. We append ` next' and ` prev' to indicate that this is the POS tag of the next and previous word respectively. Italicized words represent lexical items. We first consider the features that indicate a sentence boundary (see Table 2a). In general, we observe that our minimum frequency cut-off removes many of the lexical features from the top 10. (In the absence of such a cut-off, we observed that very low frequency words can be given deceptively high weights.) The exceptions to this are the words go and her in the control set. When we look at the data, 866

TDT-4 (small) PRP next DT next RB NNS long pause pitch<ave NN CC next energy<ave IN prev TDT-4 (small) VBD next the IN MD next CC VBG next VBN next CD prev a to

Control long pause go her NNS CC next RB RB next PRP next IN short pause Control TO next so CC NNS next the she and VBD next of uh

SD CC next NNS RB NN RB next PRP next energy<ave RB prev VB IN prev SD the PRP$ next and then VBD next VBZ next TO next 's I a

PNFA long pause CC next NN RB next NNS RB short pause PRP next no pause RB prev PNFA TO next then the she VBP next and uh VB next VBD next a

(a) Features associated with a boundary

(b) Features associated with a non-boundary

Table 2: The 10 features with the highest weights in each CRF model, indicating either that the following interword boundary is or is not a sentence boundary.

there are indeed many occurrences of go and her at the end of sentences, for example, she was not allowed to go or she couldn't go, and very mean to her or so in love with her. While these lexical items are not specific to the Cinderella story, it seems unlikely that these features would generalize to other story-telling tasks (although we note that the Cinderella story is very widely used in the assessment of aphasia and some types of dementia). The POS of the given word and its neighbours are generally important features. In all four cases, the next word being a coordinating conjunction or a pronoun is indicative of a boundary. In the three PPA cases, but not the news case, the next word being an adverb is also indicative. Looking at the data, we observe that this very often corresponds to the use of words like so, then, well, anyway, etc. This would seem to reflect a difference between the frequent use of discourse markers in spontaneous speech and their relative sparsity in prepared speech. The POS of the current word is also important. In

