Network C LIQUE C ONSECUTIVE

Fail Test 2 P R F1 0.55 0.20 0.29 0.63 0.28 0.39

Pass Test 2 P R F1 0.65 0.92 0.76 0.67 0.90 0.77

Macro-F1 0.57 0.62

Table 3: Results for Test 2: "do these women talk to each other?"

Space Odyssey actually fails the test (it has only one named woman, Elena), I MDB G MAP incorrectly detects Stewardess as another named woman and makes an incorrect prediction. Second, certain characters are credited with a name different from the way they appear in the screenplay. Following is a user comment from bechdeltest.com on the movie Up in the Air that highlights this second limitation: Natalie refers to Karen Barnes as "Miss Barnes" when they first meet. She is also named later. Despite the fact that she's credited as "Terminated employee", she's definitely a named female character. The methodology used for finding named women directly impacts the performance of our classifiers on the next two tests. For instance, if a methodology under-predicts the number of named women in a movie, its chances of failing the next two tests increase. In fact, we experimented with all combinations and found the combination S TAN G MAP+ I MDB G MAP to outperform other gender resources for the next two tests. Due to space limitations, we do not present these results in the paper. We use the lists of named women and named men generated by S TAN G MAP+ I MDB G MAP for the next two tests.

6

Test 2: Do these women talk to each other?

C2 the second speaking character, and so on. One way of creating an interaction network is to connect all the characters that appear between two scene boundaries (Weng et al., 2009). Since the characters C1, C2, and C3 appear between two scene boundaries (S1 and S2), we connect all the three characters with pair-wise links. We call this the C LIQUE approach. Another way of connecting speaking characters is to connect only the ones that appear consecutively (C1 to C2 and C2 to C3, no link between C1 and C3). We call this the C ONSECUTIVE approach. Results presented in Table 3 show that the C ON SEQUITIVE approach performs significantly better than the C LIQUE approach. We investigated the reason for an overall low performance for this test. One reason was the overprediction of named women by our gender resource (labeling Stewardess as a named woman). Another reason was the inconsistent use of scene descriptions in screenplays. Consider the sequence of scene boundaries, characters, and scene descriptions: {S1, N1, C1, C2, N2, C3, C4, S2, . . .}. While for some screenplays N2 divided the scene between S1 and S2 into two scenes (S1-N2 and N2-S2), for other screenplays it did not. For the screenplays that it did, our C ONSECUTIVE approach incorrectly connected the characters C2 and C3, which led to an over-prediction of characters that talk to each other. Both these reasons contributed to the low recall for the Fail class.

So far, we have parsed screenplays for identifying character mentions, scene boundaries, and other elements of a screenplay (see Figure 1). We have also identified the gender of named characters. For automating the second test (do these women talk to each other?) we experimented with two techniques for creating interaction networks of characters. Consider the following sequence of tagged lines in a screenplay: {S1, C1, C2, C3, S2, C1, . . .}. S1 denotes the first scene boundary, C1 denotes the first speaking character in the first scene, 835

7

Test 3: Do these women talk to each other about something besides a man?

For the third Bechdel test, we experimented with machine learning models that utilized linguistic features as well as social network analysis features derived from the interaction network of characters. 7.1 Feature Set We considered four broad categories of features: word unigrams (BOW), distribution of conversa-

