2.2.2

DM Based on Semantic Role Labels
the

NMOD donut SBJ the ARG1 donut was was

VC eaten LGS eaten V by by

PMOD Bob

In order to create a competitor to the much less manually pruned cousin of TypeDM named DepDM, Sayeed and Demberg (2014) based SDDM (short for SENNA-DepDM) on similar corpora but used alternative features. Namely, this tensor was built from ukWaC and BNC, but the features came from a semantic role labelling (SRL) system called SENNA (Collobert and Weston, 2007; Collobert et al., 2011). SENNA uses a multi-layer neural network architecture that learns in a sliding window over token sequences working on raw text instead of syntactic parses, as other semantic role labellers do (Bohnet, 2010). SENNA extracts word features related to identity, capitalization, and suffix/tense (approximated by the last two characters of the word). From these features, in a process similar to decoding a conditional random field, the network derives features related to verb position, part of speech, and chunk membership. SENNA was trained on PropBank and large amounts of unlabelled data. It achieves a role labelling F-score of 75.49% (in this case, tested on CoNNL 2005 data), which is slightly lower than state of the art SRL systems which use parse trees as input. SDDM was built by running the sentences from the input corpora through SENNA and using the role labels as links between predicates and role-fillers. Unlike TypeDM , SDDM required almost no further processing; the raw frequency counts of triples were used in the LMI calculation. In this paper, we present SDDMX , an extended version of the SDDM model1 . SDDMX contains the same links as SDDM and also contains links between nouns that belong to the same predicate instance, using the predicate as a link label. For example, supposing that during training the system encountered the man eats a donut with a role link between man and eat and another role link between donut and eat, then in SDDMX , a link was created between man and donut. This link was labelled with the verb lemma for the 400 most frequent verbs (eat in our example), and vb otherwise. Sayeed and Demberg (2014) found that although
We provide SDDM and SDDMX at http://rollen.mmci.uni-saarland.de/.
1

Bob

ARG0

Figure 2: The same sentence with MaltParser (above) and SENNA (below) labels. Sayeed and Demberg (2014) used a simplified approach similar to the head percolation table of Magerman (1994) to find head nouns from SENNA annotation.

SDDM is an arguably simpler DM model than TypeDM , it performs nearly as well as TypeDM on a thematic fit estimation task using the Pad´ o (2007) and McRae et al. (1998) agent/patient datasets. They also found that averaging the thematic fit scores of SDDM with those of TypeDM outperforms TypeDM alone and nearly reaches the performance of a supervised model (Herda gdelen and Baroni, 2009). This suggests that TypeDM and SDDM cover different aspects of the corpora on which they were trained. Links generated by SENNA may directly access semantic role features that the MaltParser-based TypeDM must infer through hand-crafted rules, such as tagging the subject as a patient instead of an agent in passive-voice contexts. Figure 2 illustrates the differences between the labelling approaches. We make use of the SDDM , SDDMX , and TypeDM tensors in our experiments to demonstrate how our techniques improve performance in thematic fit modelling across different feature spaces. 2.2.3 Centroid-based thematic fit calculation in DM

Investigating alternative ways to calculate thematic fit over the DM framework is a major goal of this work, so we now describe the baseline process. Baroni and Lenci (2010) used the following approach to estimate thematic fit on the Pad´ o (2007) agent/patient dataset: To assess the fit of a noun w1 in a role r for a verb w2 , they construct a centroid from the 20 highest-ranked fillers for r with w2 selected by LMI, using the relevant syntactic dependency links, such as subject and object, instead of

24

