the generality exploited by LEXVAR and IDENT . In this case, the leverage ratio cannot be extremely high despite the large difference in the corpora sizes. LEXVAR also largely contributed to discovering paraphrases for phrases that were not paraphrased using only SSeed and SID . The ratio of the numbers of unique left-hand side phrases in SLV to those in SSeed ranged over 65­147 and 92­415 in the two respective settings, gaining 76%­210% and 145%­ 175% more coverage than SID .

Classification-based: Evaluators are asked to classify each example into one of the predetermined categories, guided by the decision trees respectively designed for evaluating grammaticality and meaning equivalence. 5.2 Data We used news sentences as in (Callison-Burch, 2008; Fujita et al., 2012): the English sentences from WMT 2011­2013 "newstest" data (9,000 unique sentences). To reduce the human labor for the evaluation, they were restricted to those with moderate length: 10­30 words, which we expected to provide sufficient but succinct context of the substituted phrases. 5,850 sentences were retained. By substituting phrases in the above sentences using the paraphrase lexicons SSeed and SLV in the Europarl setting, 88,555 example units comprising 1,013,511 paraphrases were generated. For each example unit, 3-best paraphrases were then selected by a 5-gram language model trained on the monolingual data in the Europarl setting with modified Kneser­Ney smoothing using KenLM10 . Finally, from 31,149 units that contained at least three paraphrases, we randomly sampled 200 example units for 200 unique left-hand side phrases. 5.3 Results We collected evaluations from three native English speakers. Table 3 summarizes the inter-evaluator agreement ratio, Cohen's  (Cohen, 1960). The values for a coarse-grained binary decision11 were "substantial" for grammaticality and "moderate" for meaning equivalence (Landis and Koch, 1977). The quality of the examined paraphrase lexicons is measured by the precision of the evaluated examples: an example was regarded as correct if and only if a majority of evaluators (two or three in our case) assigned a label corresponding to the positive class in the binary decision. Table 4 summarizes the results. Despite the low chance of being the 3-best candidates, thanks to various filters,
https://kheafield.com/code/kenlm/ We regarded "Perfect" and "Awkward" for grammaticality, and "Equivalent" and either of three categories of slight differences "Missing Info.," "Additional Info.," and "Ignorable Change" for meaning equivalence as positive. This is consistent with (Callison-Burch, 2008).
11 10

5 Quality Assessment
The quality of the created paraphrase lexicons was manually evaluated through a paraphrase substitution test: we generated pairs of paraphrase sentences using the paraphrase lexicons and asked human evaluators to assess their quality. 5.1 Criteria and Procedure Generating paraphrased sentences by substituting words and phrases involves two different tasks: generating new sentences and ensuring that the meaning is preserved. It is therefore straightforward to separately evaluate the grammaticality and meaning equivalence of each paraphrased sentence (Callison-Burch, 2008). Grammaticality: whether the paraphrased sentence is grammatical Meaning equivalence: whether the meaning of the original sentence is properly preserved by the paraphrased sentence We adopted the detailed criteria and procedure described in (Fujita, 2013), as they resulted in a reasonably high inter-evaluator agreement ratio. The evaluation protocol is characterized by the following three features introduced for reducing human labor and making results consistent. Unit-wise: Several paraphrase examples for the same source are packaged into an example unit and provided at the same time. Two-phased: Evaluators are first asked to assess only the grammaticality of each paraphrased sentence without seeing the original sentence. Then, by comparing each pair of original and paraphrased sentences, they assess to what extent the paraphrased sentence retains the meaning of its counterpart.

637

