For our analysis, we grouped the production rules sp  sl sr in a sentiment treebank into one of the following categories:
AVG

has a negative meaning as a construction despite "wenig" (few/not much) not having a negative meaning itself. · expression strengthening is a phenomenon that occurs when a term is judged as neutral by annotators by itself, but gains a sentiment value when paired with an intensifier or negator. For example, intrusive was labeled as neutral in SSTb, but simply intrusive as negative. · comparatives are a very regular construction where too much of something is almost always bad: too long, too insistent, too much, too many are all negative in SSTb, just as zu viel (too many) and zu wenig (not enough) and other counterparts in HeiST are negative. · true constructions such as plot holes or historically significant in SSTB, or ruhigen Gewissens (with a calm conscience) and Finger weg (don't touch it) in HeiST are both a problem for approaches relying purely on composition and not regular enough that we would expect to model it as a regular construction. Some of the neutral-to-positive or neutral-tonegative transitions don't seem well-motivated and may be regarded as artifacts from the crowdsourcing, as does n't, is n't and are n't are negative in SSTb whereas 's not, do n't and did n't get a neutral label. In HeiST, nicht immer (not always) as well as nicht ganz (not quite) are negative, whereas auch nicht (neither) and nicht so (not as) or nicht unbedingt (not necessarily) are neutral. The MWE productions seem to overlap with wellknown linguistic phenomena ­ consider Fahrni and Klenner (2008) and their claim that most adjectives have a polarity that is dependent on the target they modify instead of having a `prior' polarity that holds independently of the target, or the observation of Su and Markert (2009) that sentiment should be dependent on word senses instead of word forms (which would capture a large number of examples within the expression strengthening category). Yet, others may be idiosyncracies introduced by the crowdsourcing process, and powerful learners such as RNTN or the approach of Hall et al. (2014) will gain performance from simply memorizing the idiosyncracies of the data when there is

A production is said to be averaging if the parent category is within the range of either daughter category. (e.g. mind-numbingly good would be the composition of a negative term and a positive term to a positive term, which still fits the averaging heuristic). A production is said to be inverting if one daughter category is neutral and the other daughter category is on the other side on the spectrum (e.g. "not great" landing on the negative side) A production is said to be intensifying if the parent category is on the same side of the scale as the daughters but more extreme. A production is said to be a multi-word production if the daughter categories are classified as neutral while the parent category is not.4

INV

INT

MWE

As can be seen in table 6, the number of inverting and intensifying productions is dwarfed, both for the SST and for HeiST, by the number of multi-word rules. While it is likely that these counts are slightly distorted by noise in the annotation (as both datasets are the product of crowdsourcing), this fact is remarkable and merits further investigation. Types of multiword expressions If we try to group the nodes with a "multiword" production, we can distinguish at least the following categories: · aspect descriptions: In some cases, an adjective is specifically used to describe a (positive or negative) aspect of the movie, such as an elaborate continuation, or an expanded vision, where individual words have a neutral sentiment label (and conceivable could have been used in a non-aspect-specific way to convey a neutral or negative sentiment, such as an elaborate perversion, or an expanded nightshift). Similarly, wenig Handlung (not much action)
The MWE category also contains a small number ­ about 5% of total MWE productions ­ of positive-to-neutral and negative-to-neutral productions, which we found to be predominantly noise from the crowdsourcing process.
4

701

