chines. In Proceedings of the 25th international conference on Machine learning. Xiao Li, Ye-Yi Wang, and Alex Acero. 2009. Extracting structured information from user queries with semisupervised conditional random fields. In Proceedings of the 32nd international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval. Shen Li, Joao V Grac ¸ a, and Ben Taskar. 2012. Wikily supervised part-of-speech tagging. In Proceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning, pages 1389­1398. Association for Computational Linguistics. Xiaohu Liu, Ruhi Sarikaya, Chris Brockett, Chris Quirk, William B Dolan, and Bill Dolan. 2013. Paraphrase features to improve natural language understanding. In INTERSPEECH, pages 3776­3779. Laurens Maaten, Max Welling, and Lawrence K Saul. 2011. Hidden-unit conditional random fields. In International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics. Alex Marin, Roman Holenstein, Ruhi Sarikaya, and Mari Ostendorf. 2014. Learning phrase patterns for text classification using a knowledge graph and unlabeled data. In Fifteenth Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication Association. Mike Mintz, Steven Bills, Rion Snow, and Dan Jurafsky. 2009. Distant supervision for relation extraction without labeled data. In Proceedings of the Joint Conference of the 47th Annual Meeting of the ACL and the 4th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing of the AFNLP: Volume 2-Volume 2. Sebastian Riedel, Limin Yao, and Andrew McCallum. 2010. Modeling relations and their mentions without labeled text. In Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases. Ruhi Sarikaya, Asli Celikyilmaz, Anoop Deoras, and Minwoo Jeong. 2014. Shrinkage based features for slot tagging with conditional random fields. In Proc. of Interspeech. Mihai Surdeanu, Julie Tibshirani, Ramesh Nallapati, and Christopher D Manning. 2012. Multi-instance multilabel learning for relation extraction. In Proceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning. Oscar T¨ ackstr¨ om, Dipanjan Das, Slav Petrov, Ryan McDonald, and Joakim Nivre. 2013. Token and type constraints for cross-lingual part-of-speech tagging. Kristina Toutanova and Mark Johnson. 2007. A bayesian lda-based model for semi-supervised part-of-speech tagging. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 1521­1528.

Svitlana Volkova, Pallavi Choudhury, Chris Quirk, Bill Dolan, and Luke S Zettlemoyer. 2013. Lightly supervised learning of procedural dialog systems. In ACL. Fei Wu and Daniel S Weld. 2007. Autonomously semantifying wikipedia. In Proceedings of the sixteenth ACM conference on Conference on information and knowledge management.

92

