Semantic Grounding in Dialogue for Complex Problem Solving
Xiaolong Li
Department of Computer Science North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC, 27695 xli30@ncsu.edu

Kristy Elizabeth Boyer
Department of Computer Science North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC, 27695 keboyer@ncsu.edu

Abstract
Dialogue systems that support users in complex problem solving must interpret user utterances within the context of a dynamically changing, user-created problem solving artifact. This paper presents a novel approach to semantic grounding of noun phrases within tutorial dialogue for computer programming. Our approach performs joint segmentation and labeling of the noun phrases to link them to attributes of entities within the problem-solving environment. Evaluation results on a corpus of tutorial dialogue for Java programming demonstrate that a Conditional Random Field model performs well, achieving an accuracy of 89.3% for linking semantic segments to the correct entity attributes. This work is a step toward enabling dialogue systems to support users in increasingly complex problem-solving tasks.

1 Introduction
In the dialogue systems research community, there is growing recognition that dialogue systems need to support users in increasingly complex tasks. To move in this direction, dialogue systems must perform natural language understanding within richer and richer contexts, and this understanding includes semantic interpretation of user utterances (Traum, et al., 2012, Rudnicky, et al., 1999). Previous approaches for semantic interpretation include domain-specific grammars (Lemon et al., 2001) and open-domain parsers together with a domain-specific lexicon (Rosé, 2000). However,

existing techniques are not sufficient to support increasingly complex problem-solving dialogues due to several challenges. For example, domainspecific grammars become intractable when applied to more ill-formed domains,   and opendomain parsers may not perform well across domains (McClosky et al., 2010). The call for addressing these limitations is particularly strong for dialogue systems that help people learn, such as tutorial dialogue systems. Today's tutorial dialogue systems engage in natural language dialogue in support of tasks such as solving qualitative physics problems (VanLehn et al., 2002), understanding computer architecture and physics (Graesser et al., 2004), and predicting behavior of electrical circuits (Dzikovska et al., 2011). Although these systems differ in many ways, they have an important commonality: in order to semantically interpret user dialogue utterances, these systems ground the utterances in a fixed domain description that is an integral part of the engineered system. This characteristic is shared by most dialogue systems, which ground their dialogue in manually defined domain-specific ontologies, such as for the task of booking flights (Allen, et al., 2001), checking bus schedules (Raux, 2004), and finding restaurants (Young et al., 2007). These task-oriented domains, though they present a rich set of research challenges, stand in stark contrast to a complex problem-solving domain in which the user is creating an artifact to solve a problem. Yet the psychology literature tells us that complex problem solving is an essential activity in human learning (Greiff et al., 2013; Mayer et al., 2006; Funke, 2010). In such a domain, understanding user dialogue utterances involves grounding them within an infinite set of possible user-created

841
Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 841­850, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

