logical and morphological characteristics of English are reflected in its traditional orthography, which is currently the dominant medium of information exchange in the world. In this paper, we investigate the issue of orthographic optimality from the computational perspective. We define metrics to quantify the degree of optimality of a spelling system in terms of phonemic transparency and morphological consistency. We design an algorithm to generate an orthography that maximizes both types of optimality, and implement it using computational tools and resources. We show experimentally that the traditional orthography is much further from optimality than our constructed system, which contradicts the claim of Chomsky and Halle.

the other hand, the orthography of Serbo-Croatian was originally created according to the rule "write as you speak", so that the spelling can be unambiguously produced from pronunciation. This does not mean that the pronunciation is completely predictable from spelling; for example, lexical stress is not marked (Sproat, 2000). In this paper, we measure phonemic transparency by computing average perplexity between graphemes and phonemes. Roughly speaking, phonemic perplexity indicates how many different graphemes on average correspond to a single phoneme, while graphemic perplexity reflects the corresponding ambiguity of graphemes. We provide a formal definition in Section 5. 2.2 Morphological optimality A purely morphemic writing system would have a unique graphemic representation for each morpheme. Chinese is usually given as an example of a near-morphemic writing system. In this paper, we construct an abstract morphemic spelling system for English by selecting a single alphabetic form for each morpheme, and simply concatenating them to make up words. For example, the morphemic spelling of viscosity could be `viscous·ity'.1 We define morphemic optimality to correspond to the consistency principle of Chomsky and Halle. The rationale is that a unique spelling for each morpheme should allow related words to be readily identified in the mental lexicon. Sproat (2000) distinguishes between morpheme-oriented "deep" orthographies, like Russian, and phoneme-oriented "shallow" orthographies, like Serbo-Croatian. We propose to measure morphemic consistency by computing the average edit distance between morpheme representations in different word-forms. The less variation morpheme spellings exhibit in a writing system, the higher the corresponding value of the morphemic transparency will be. We define the measure in Section 5. It is impossible to achieve complete phonemic and morphemic optimality within one system designed for English spelling. For example, the stem morpheme of verb forms hearing and heard is
Non-traditional spellings are written within single quotes. Morphemes may be explicitly separated by the centered dot character.
1

2

Optimality

In this section, we define the notions of phonemic and morphemic optimality, and our general approach to quantifying them. We propose two theoretical orthographies that are phonemically and morphologically optimal, respectively. We argue that no orthographic system for English can be simultaneously optimal according to both criteria. 2.1 Phonemic optimality

A purely phonemic system would have a perfect one-to-one relationship between graphemes and phonemes. Rogers (2005) states that no standard writing system completely satisfies this property, although Finnish orthography comes remarkably close. For our purposes, we assume the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) transcription to be such an ideal system. For example, the IPA transcription of the word viscosity is [vIskAs@ti]. We obtain the transcriptions from a digital dictionary that represents the General American pronunciation of English. Phonemic transparency can be considered in two directions: from letters to phonemes, and vice versa. The pronunciation of Spanish words is recoverable from the spelling by applying a limited set of rules (Kominek and Black, 2006). However, there is some ambiguity in the opposite direction; for example, the phoneme [b] can be expressed with either `b' or 'v'. As a result, it is not unusual for native Spanish speakers to make spelling mistakes. On 538

