A Hybrid Generative/Discriminative Approach To Citation Prediction
Chris Tanner Brown University Providence, RI christanner@cs.brown.edu Eugene Charniak Brown University Providence, RI ec@cs.brown.edu

Abstract
Text documents of varying nature (e.g., summary documents written by analysts or published, scientific papers) often cite others as a means of providing evidence to support a claim, attributing credit, or referring the reader to related work. We address the problem of predicting a document's cited sources by introducing a novel, discriminative approach which combines a content-based generative model (LDA) with author-based features. Further, our classifier is able to learn the importance and quality of each topic within our corpus ­ which can be useful beyond this task ­ and preliminary results suggest its metric is competitive with other standard metrics (Topic Coherence). Our flagship system, Logit-Expanded, provides state-of-the-art performance on the largest corpus ever used for this task.

vant, useful sources which they may otherwise not know about; and (2) aid readers in finding useful documents which otherwise might not have been discovered, due to the documents' being unpopular or poorly cited by many authors. Specifically, we are interested in citation prediction ­ that is, we aim to predict which sources each report document cites. We define a report as any document that cites another document in our corpus, and a source as a document that is cited by at least one report. Naturally, many documents within a corpus can be both a report and a source. Note, we occasionally refer to linking a report and source, which is synonymous with saying the report cites the source. Citation prediction can be viewed as a special case of the more general, heavily-researched area of link prediction. In fact, past research mentioned in Section 2 refers to this exact task as both citation prediction and link prediction. However, link prediction is a commonly used phrase which may be used to describe other problems not concerning documents and citation prediction. In these general cases, a link may be relatively abstract and represent any particular relationship between other objects (such as users' interests or interactions). Traditionally, popular techniques for link prediction and recommendation systems have included featurebased classification, matrix factorization, and other collaborative filtering approaches ­ all of which typically use meta-data features (e.g., names and interests) as opposed to modelling complete content such as full text documents (Sarwar et al., 2001; Al Hasan and Zaki, 2011). However, starting with Hofmann and Cohn's (2001) seminal work on ci-

1

Introduction

The amount of digital documents (both online and offline) continues to grow greatly for several reasons, including the eagerness of users to generate content (e.g., social media, Web 2.0) and the decrease in digital storage costs. Many different types of documents link to or cite other documents (e.g., websites, analyst summary reports, academic research papers), and they do so for various reasons: to provide evidence, attribute credit, refer the reader to related work, etc. Given the plethora of documents, it can be highly useful to have a system which can automatically predict relevant citations, for this could (1) aid authors in citing rele75

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 75­83, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

