Gold Set: Sample of Noun Phrases ListQ: 1911 pistols, 2009 movies, alabama sororities, alaskan towns, american holidays, aramaic words, argumentative essays, arm loans, army ranks, .., yugioh movies IsA: academy award nominees, addicting games, advanced weapons systems, android tablet, application layer protocols, astrological signs, automotive parts, .., zip code WikiC: 2k sports games, aaliyah songs, advertising slogans, airline tickets, alan jackson songs, ancient romans, andrea bocelli albums, athletic shoes, .., wii accessories

Table 3: Gold sets of 100 noun phrases per vocabulary

laries, or around 70% of all input noun phrases. Precision of Interpretations: From an input vocabulary, an initial weighted sample of 150 noun phrases with some extracted interpretations is manually inspected. The sampling weight is the frequency of the noun phrases as queries. A noun phrase from the selected sample is either retained, or discarded if deemed to be a non-interpretable phrase. A noun phrase is not interpretable if it is in fact an instance ("new york", "alicia keys") rather than a class; or it is not a properly formed noun phrase ("watch movies"); or does not refer to a meaningful class ("3 significant figures"). The manual inspection ends, once a sample of 100 noun phrases has been retained. The procedure gives weighted random samples of 100 noun phrases, drawn from each of the ListQ, IsA and WikiC vocabularies. The samples, shown in Table 3, constitute the gold sets of phrases ListQ, IsA and WikiC, over which precision of interpretations is computed. Note that, since the samples are random, Wikipedia categories that contribute to the automatic construction of wiki-templ variants may be selected as gold phrases in WikiC. This is the case for three of the gold phrases in WikiC. The top 20 interpretations extracted for each gold phrase are manually annotated with correctness labels. As shown in Table 4, an interpretation is annotated as: correct and generic, or correct and specific, if relevant; okay, if useful but containing nonessential information; or wrong. To compute the precision score over a gold set of phrases, the correctness labels are converted to numeric values. Precision of a ranked list of extracted interpretations is the average of the correctness values of the interpretations in the list. Table 5 provides a comparison of precision scores at various ranks in the extracted lists of interpretations, as an average over all phrases from a gold set. 339

Label (Score)  Examples of (Noun Phrase: Interpretation) cg (1.0)  (good short stories: short stories that are good), (bay area counties: counties in the bay area), (fourth grade sight words: sight words in fourth grade), (army ranks: ranks from the army), (who wants to be a millionaire winners: winners of who wants to be a millionaire), (us visa: visa for us) cs (1.0)  (brazilian dances: dances of the brazilian culture), (tsunami charities: charities that gave to the tsunami), (stephen king books: books published by stephen king), (florida insurance companies: insurance companies headquartered in florida), (florida insurance companies: insurance companies operating in florida), (us visa: visa required to enter us) qq (0.5)  (super smash bros brawl characters: characters meant to be in super smash bros brawl), (carribean islands: islands by the carribean), (pain assessment tool: tool for recording pain assessment) xw (0.0)  (periodic functions: functions of periodic distributions), (simpsons episodes: episodes left of simpsons), (atm card: card left in wachovia atm)

Table 4: Examples of interpretations manually annotated with each correctness label (cg=correct generic; cs=correct specific; qq=okay; xw=incorrect)
Gold Set ListQ IsA WikiC @1 0.770 0.730 0.780 Precision@N @3 @5 @10 0.708 0.655 0.568 0.598 0.530 0.423 0.647 0.561 0.455

@20 0.465 0.329 0.357

Table 5: Average precision, at various ranks in the ranked lists of interpretations extracted for noun phrases from various sets of gold phrases

At ranks 1, 5 and 20, precision scores vary between 0.770, 0.655 and 0.465 respectively, for the ListQ gold set; and between 0.730, 0.530 and 0.329 respectively, for the IsA gold set. Presence of Relevant Interpretations: Sometimes it is difficult to even manually enumerate as many as 20 distinct, relevant string forms of interpretations for a given noun phrase. Measuring precision at a particular rank (e.g., 20) in a ranked list of interpretations may be too conservative. Table 6 summarizes a different type of scoring metric, namely the presence of any relevant interpretation, among the interpretations extracted up to a particular rank. Relevance is flexibly defined, by requiring the interpretations to have been assigned a certain correctness label, then computing the average number of gold phrases for which such interpretations are present up to a particular rank. When considering only interpretations annotated as correct and generic or correct and specific, in the second row of each vertical

