and adjectives from each bigram and the query of the topic. Then every bigram and sentence can be represented as a bag of synonyms of the original words. Finally based on these synonyms we leverage the following four similarity measurements: Lin Similarity (Lin, 1998), Wu-Palmer Similarity (Wu and Palmer, 1994), Jiang-Conrath Similarity (Jiang and Conrath, 1997), and Resnik Similarity (Resnik, 1995). These four similarity measurements are all implemented in the NLTK toolkit4 . We expect that these features would improve the estimation accuracy because they can overcome the ambiguity and the diversity of the vocabulary. 4.5 Importance based on Wikipedia Wikipedia is a very popular resource used in many different tasks. In order to obtain more precise external information from Wikipedia for our task, we collect the articles from Wikipedia by two steps. If the query is already the title of a wiki page, we will not further gather other wiki pages for this topic. Otherwise, we first search for the wiki pages for the given topic query and description (if available) using Google advanced search function to find pages from http://en.wikipedia.org/. For each returned wiki page, we further calculate its similarity between its abstract and the test documents' top k frequent words. We select 3 most similar pages as the external Wiki resource for this topic. For these wikipages, we split into two parts: abstract and content.5 The features are the following: For each bigram, we collect its tf*idf score from the abstract and content part respectively, and the average tf*idf value of the unigrams in the bigram candidate. In addition, we design two boolean features that represent whether a bigram is the top-k most frequent ones in the abstract or the content part of the Wikepages. 4.6 DBpedia6 for Extending Name Entity DBpedia is a crowd-sourced community effort to extract structured information from Wikipedia and its Spotlight Service7 is an entity linking tool to connect
http://www.nltk.org/ Every Wikipage has a table of contents. The part before that is considered as abstract and the part after that is the content of that page. 6 http://dbpedia.org/About 7 http://blog.dbpedia.org/2014/07/21/dbpedia-spotlight-v07released/
5 4

free text to DBpedia through the recognition and disambiguation of entities and concepts from the DBpedia Knowledge Base. We use this service to extract the entity from each sentence, and if the recognized entity is also identified as a named entity by Stanford CoreNLP8 , we use this entity's DBpedia abstract content to extend the bigrams. For example, in the bigram `Kashmir area', the word `Kashmir' is recognized as an entity by both (Stanford CoreNLP and DBpedia Spotlight service), then we use the description for `Kashmir' from DBpedia9 to extend this bigram, and calculate the cosine similarity between this description and the topic query and top-k most frequent unigrams in the documents. 4.7 Sentiment Feature from SentiWordNet10

SentiWordNet (Baccianella et al., 2010) is an extension on WordNet and it further assigns to each synset of WordNet three sentiment scores: positivity, negativity, objectivity. The sentiment score of a bigram is the average score of the two words in the bigram. To sum up, the features we use include the internal features, and external ones derived from various resources: news article corpus with summaries, Wikipeida, DBpedia, WordNet and SentiWordNet. Some external features represent the inherent importance of bigrams. For example, features extracted from the news article corpus and wikipedia are used to represent how often bigrams are used in summary/abstract compared to the entire document. Some external features are used to better compute semantic similarity, for example, features from the word embedding methods, DBpedia, and WordNet.

5
5.1

Experiments
Data and Experiment Setup

We evaluate our methods using several recent TAC data sets, from 2008 to 2011. The TAC summarization task is to generate at most 100 words summaries from 10 documents for a given topic query
http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/corenlp.shtml The Indian subcontinent is a southerly region of Asia, mostly situated on the Indian Plate and projecting southward into the Indian Ocean. Definitions of the extent of the Indian subcontinent differ but it usually includes the core lands of India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh 10 http://sentiwordnet.isti.cnr.it/
9 8

782

