Figure 1: An example of a commercial real estate flyer c Kudan Group Real Estate.

Our goal is to utilize this publicly available information and extract structured data that can be continuously updated for a reliable centralized database of offerings. Commercial listing information is typically summarized in a structured form suitable for targeted property searches. The most important information consists of the various categories of the offering. For example, the transaction type (sale, lease, and/or investment), the property type (industrial, retail, office, etc.), the location of the property (its full geocoded address), the size of the property, the contact information of the brokers representing the property, etc. This information is typically present in text form within the flyer. However, flyers and similar marketing materials are essentially multi-media documents. In addition to text, information is also conveyed by attributes such as font size, color, positioning, and images. For example, the listing address of the flyer on Figure 1 can be easily identified by its prominent color, size, and positioning (2834 N. Southport Ave, upper left corner). While the address of the broker firm shown in the same flyer is considered non-essential information and lacks such visual prominence (156 North Jefferson St., upper right corner). In fact, it is very difficult and sometimes impossible to distinguish between the two address types when considering a text-only version of the flyer. Similarly, the transaction type (For Sale) 284

of the property on Figure 2 is prominently shown in a large font and distinctive color. To account for the multi-media nature of the dataset, we attempt to combine textual and visual features for the task of automatic extraction of structured information from free-form commercial real estate flyers. The problem of extracting structured data from flyers was modeled as text categorization and Named Entity Recognition (NER) tasks as described in Section Problem Definition below. Typically, both text categorization and NER approaches are applied to genres with exclusively text-based content (newswires, scientific publications, blogs and other social media texts). As a result, the feature space of NER and text categorization involves purely textual features: word attributes and characteristics, their contexts and frequencies. However, textual information in visually rich formats, such as PDF and HTML, is interlaced with typographic and other visually salient characteristics. In this study, we propose several novel features that take visual characteristics into account and show that performance improves significantly on both the text categorization and NER tasks.

2

Problem Definition

Given a commercial real estate flyer, our task is to extract structured information that can be used as input to a commercial real estate listing service. This information includes categories associated with the property (property type and transaction type) and a list of property attributes (address, space information, and broker information). The task of identifying a list of categories was modeled as a text categorization task. The categories and associated types are summarized in Table 1. Both text categorization tasks (identifying the Transaction and Property Types) are multi-label classification tasks, i.e. multiple category labels can be assigned to each listing. For example, properties are often offered for both sale and lease and belong to both transaction types. Similarly, a retail building could offer an associated office unit and belongs to property types retail and office. The task of identifying values of specific listing attributes was modeled as a Named Entity Recognition (NER) task. The various NER types and de-

