which are less likely to be found in scientific abstracts. Therefore, the context vectors learnt for these words are possibly less accurate compromising the clustering quality. For the domain-specific adjectives, the annotations require specialized skills. PubMed hosts scientific articles from different disciplines of biological sciences. We obtained annotations from three annotators specializing in disciplines of Biomedical Informatics, Biochemistry, and Nursing. To create the gold standard, a word was retained or discarded from a cluster if two or more annotators agreed on it. We obtained a clustering accuracy of 64.3% for 25 clusters across 101 domain-specific adjectives. 5.2 Ranking

Clusters of domain-specific adverbs anteriorly, caudally, distally, proximally chromosomally, clonally, genetically, phenotypically neonatally, prenatally, postnatally Clusters of regular adverbs always, certainly, inevitably, invariably, universally marginally, modestly, slightly, somewhat excessively, inappropriately, overly
Table 4: Examples of automatically derived adverb clusters from PubMed abstracts.

We obtained gold standard annotations for ranking using AMT for these 25 "regular adjective" clusters derived from the PubMed corpus using the exact same methodology as described in Section 4.2. The strength counts for these adjectives were also derived from the PubMed corpus. We obtained an accuracy of 70.37% across 109 pairs, indicating a similar level of performance to WordNet-based clusters. Our expert annotators for the domain-specific adjectives faced problems in assessing an ordering between adjectives in a cluster. They report that for majority of the clusters, the ordering of the words would vary given the context. For example, consider the following modifications of the domain specific adjectives of the third cluster in Table 3: ribosomal particles, mitochondiral compartments and nuclear compartments, representing different parts of a living cell. If we consider "number of" as the relation in context, we get (ribosomal > mitochondrial > nuclear) as an ordering since number of ribosomal particles is greater than number of mitochondrial compartments, and number of mitochondrial compartments is greater than number of nuclear compartments. However, if we consider "size of" as the context, the ordering is reversed.

also enable us to extract candidate scalar adverbs. We follow a similar approach to adjectives: extract adverbs, derive strength counts and rank them using the MILP. 6.1 Clustering

6

Extension to adverbs

A novelty of our approach is that we can also apply the technique to other parts of speech (e.g., adverbs). The structural patterns we describe in Section 3.1 490

We used CBOW vectors to perform clustering and derived k = 300 and d = 250 using the approach described in Section 5. As with the adjective clusters, we found that there were also domain-specific adverbs, illustrated in Table 4. Again, the clusters obtained look reasonable. The first cluster of domain-specific adverbs describes relative position of a body part, the second cluster corresponds to adverbs describing identity of a gene that may have an observable effect, the third cluster represents temporal descriptions that relate an event to child birth. The clustering of regular adverbs is accurate, except for the third cluster where inappropriately was found to be an outlier based on our annotations. We followed a similar approach to the adjective experiment, creating two partitions for domain-specific and regular adverbs and sampling 25 clusters from each. Annotations for regular adverbs were obtained from AMT while annotations for domain-specific adverbs were obtained from 3 domain experts. The annotation process for both clusters of adverbs was identical to that of adjectives. We obtained a microaveraged accuracy of 89.36% for 25 clusters across 104 regular adverbs and a 53.8% for 25 clusters across 89 domain-specific adverbs.

