maries as a premium source of sentences for building highly readable summaries (Siddharthan and Teufel, 2007). Moreover, a summary built from citing sentences that come for a pool of multiple citing papers is bound to lack coherence. Therefore, it is more appropriate to consider that the output of such a system is to extrinsically gauge a system's effectiveness in indexing information-rich citing sentences containing keywords that facilitate rapidly grasping a paper's important contributions, rather than be treated as a polished, readable summary for human consumption (Qazvinian et al., 2013). 2.1 Related Work Qazvinian and Radev (2008) first experimented with citation summary based paper summarisations. They proposed a graph-based method, C-LexRank, that first generates a citation summary network for a paper by mapping citing sentences to vertices and creating edges from their lexical similarities. Clusters of sentences capturing the same contribution of the paper are then identified through link-based community detection. Finally, the most central sentence of each cluster is found using a weighted random walk and selected to form a paper summary meant to comprehensively cover the paper's main contributions. Mohammad et al. (2009) further adapted the C-LexRank to multi-document summarisation in an attempt to generate surveys for scientific paradigms. In a later paper, Qazvinian et al. (2010) proposed a more computationally efficient summariser that does not require clustering citing sentences. As a first step, key phrases are automatically identified as significant n-grams with positive point-wise divergence (Tomokiyo, 2003) from a foreground language model estimated using the citation summary of a paper w.r.t. a background language model built from a large set of paper abstracts. A greedy algorithm is subsequently applied to select citing sentences and form a summary that maximises key phrase coverage. Mei and Zhai (2008) presented a sophisticated generative approach that frames summarisation under an Information Retrieval (IR) context. Specifically, an impact language model for a paper is first built as a mixture of a language model estimated from the paper's own text, and a weighted citation language model based on its collective citation contexts, using a compound coefficient reflecting both a sentence's proximity to the citation label (anchor) in the citing paper and the citing paper's authority 124

calculated from the citation network using PageRank (Brin and Page, 1998). Finally, documents (sentences in the target paper) that are closest to the query (the impact language model of the target paper) are extracted to form a summary using ad-hoc document retrieval. Note that Mei and Zhai (2008) utilised extra information (i.e., paper full texts and citation networks) to produce summaries that consist of sentences from papers' own texts rather than their citation summaries, making their task related to but different to ours. 2.2 Data The experiments and evaluations presented here have been based on Qazvinian's single paper summarisation corpus1 . The dataset consists of 25 highly cited papers in the ACL Anthology Network (AAN) (Radev et al., 2009) from 5 different domains: Dependency Parsing (DP), Phrase Based Machine Translation (PBMT), Text Summarisation (SUM), Question Answering (QA) and Textual Entailment (TE). There are two files provided for each paper: a citation summary file containing all citing sentences to it, and a manually constructed key fact file containing its main contributions hand picked by human annotators after reading the citation summary. The manual annotation has been performed independently by annotators, and a phrase needed to be marked by at least 2 annotators to be qualified as capturing a paper's key fact (Qazvinian and Radev, 2008). This corpus represents a gold standard in research paper summarisation and it has been widely used in system evaluations (Qazvinian and Radev, 2008; Qazvinian et al., 2010).

3

Our Approach

In this section, we first introduce our quantitative statistical method to automatically construct a keyword profile of a paper and statistically capture a paper's main contributions in terms of words from its citation summary. We then discuss how we construct a keyword profile language model. Finally, we elaborate on how we cast the task of sentence selection from the citation summary as language model divergence based IR in a probabilistic framework. 3.1 Paper Keyword Profile As indicated in Section 1, the citation summary of a paper can be deemed a collective review of its contributions. Therefore, the main contributions of a
http://www-personal.umich.edu/~vahed/ data.html
1

