 type of system (Glava s and Snajder, 2013). We utilize an ILP to improve upon a pipelined system, similar to Roth and Yih (2004), but our work differs in that we do not use piecewise-trained classifiers. Our local similarity scores are calibrated according to a global objective by propagating the gradient back from the loss to every parameter in the model. When using piecewise training, local classifiers must focus more on recall (in the spirit of Weiss and Taskar (2010)) than they would for an ordinary classification task with no global objective. Our method trains classifiers jointly with a global convex objective. While our training procedure requires decoding an integer program, the parameters we learn are globally optimal.

References
Nicholas Andrews, Jason Eisner, and Mark Dredze. 2012. Name phylogeny: A generative model of string variation. In EMNLP-CoNLL, pages 344­355. ACL. Collin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B. Lowe. 1998. The berkeley framenet project. In Proceedings of the 36th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and 17th International Conference on Computational Linguistics - Volume 1, ACL '98, pages 86­90, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics. Cosmin Adrian Bejan and Sanda Harabagiu. 2010. Unsupervised event coreference resolution with rich linguistic features. In Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, ACL '10, pages 1412­1422, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics. Peter F. Brown, Stephen A. Della Pietra, Vincent J. Della Pietra, Meredith J. Goldsmith, Jan Hajic, Robert L. Mercer, and Surya Mohanty. 1993. But dictionaries are data too. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Human Language Technology, HLT '93, pages 202­205, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics. Nathanael Chambers, Taylor Cassidy, Bill McDowell, and Steven Bethard. 2014. Dense event ordering with a multi-pass architecture. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2. Trevor Cohn, Chris Callison-Burch, and Mirella Lapata. 2008. Constructing corpora for the development and evaluation of paraphrase systems. Comput. Linguist., 34(4):597­614, December. Juri Ganitkevitch, Benjamin Van Durme, and Chris Callison-Burch. 2013. PPDB: The paraphrase database. In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT, pages 758­ 764, Atlanta, Georgia, June. Association for Computational Linguistics.  Goran Glava s and Jan Snajder. 2013. Recognizing identical events with graph kernels. In Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers), pages 797­803, Sofia, Bulgaria, August. Association for Computational Linguistics. Thorsten Joachims, Thomas Finley, and Chun-Nam John Yu. 2009. Cutting-plane training of structural svms. Mach. Learn., 77(1):27­59, October. Philipp Koehn. 2004. Statistical significance tests for machine translation evaluation. In Dekang Lin and Dekai Wu, editors, Proceedings of EMNLP 2004, pages 388­395, Barcelona, Spain, July. Association for Computational Linguistics. Simon Lacoste-Julien, Benjamin Taskar, Dan Klein, and Michael I. Jordan. 2006. Word alignment via

9

Conclusion

We presented a max-margin quadratic cost model for predicate argument alignment, seeking to exploit discourse level semantic features to improve on previous, locally independent approaches. Our model includes factors that consider fertility of predicates and arguments, the predicate argument structure present in coherent discourses, and soft constraints on predicate coreference determined by a temporal relation classifier. We have shown that this model significantly improves upon prior work which uses extensive lexical resources but without the benefit of joint inference. Additionally, this is one of the first demonstrations of the benefits of temporal relation identification. Overall, this work demonstrates the benefits of considering global document information as part of natural language understanding. Future work should extend the problem formulation of predicate argument alignment to consider incremental linking: starting with a pair of documents, perform linking, and then continue to add in documents over time. This problem formulation would capture the evolution of a breaking news story, which closely matches the type of data (news articles) considered in this work (EECB and RF datasets). This formulation ties into existing work on news summarization, topic detection and tracking, an multi-document NLU. This goes hand with work on better intra-document relation prediction methods, such as the temporal relation model used in this work, to lead to better joint linking decisions. 19

