Digital Leafleting: Extracting Structured Data from Multimedia Online Flyers
Emilia Apostolova BrokerSavant Inc. 2506 N. Clark St, 415 Chicago, IL 60614, USA
emilia@brokersavant.com

Payam Pourashraf DePaul University 243 S Wabash Ave Chicago, IL 60604, USA
ppourash@cdm.depaul.edu

Jeffrey Sack BrokerSavant Inc. 2506 N. Clark St, 415 Chicago, IL 60614, USA
jeff@brokersavant.com

Abstract
Marketing materials such as flyers and other infographics are a vast online resource. In a number of industries, such as the commercial real estate industry, they are in fact the only authoritative source of information. Companies attempting to organize commercial real estate inventories spend a significant amount of resources on manual data entry of this information. In this work, we propose a method for extracting structured data from free-form commercial real estate flyers in PDF and HTML formats. We modeled the problem as text categorization and Named Entity Recognition (NER) tasks and applied a supervised machine learning approach (Support Vector Machines). Our dataset consists of more than 2,200 commercial real estate flyers and associated manually entered structured data, which was used to automatically create training datasets. Traditionally, text categorization and NER approaches are based on textual information only. However, information in visually rich formats such as PDF and HTML is often conveyed by a combination of textual and visual features. Large fonts, visually salient colors, and positioning often indicate the most relevant pieces of information. We applied novel features based on visual characteristics in addition to traditional text features and show that performance improved significantly for both the text categorization and NER tasks.

number of broker-based industries. Such industries typically lack a centralized database or an established source of information. Organizing such content typically involves manual data entry, an expensive and labour intensive effort. Further challenge is that available offerings constantly change and manually entered data often results in out-dated inventories. In particular, the commercial real estate industry in the US (unlike residential real estate1 ) does not have a centralized database or an established source of information. A number of commercial real estate inventories collect commercial real estate data using information from flyers, contacting brokers, or visiting physical sites2 . The data is manually entered in structured form. At the same time, inventories change on a daily basis. As a result, the collected information is typically sparse and often outdated. In fact, commercial real estate brokers often need to rely on networking and chance in preference to consulting third party listing databases. While brokers do not often update third party inventory databases, they do create marketing materials (usually PDF flyers and/or HTML emails/web pages) that contain all relevant listing information. Virtually all commercial real estate offerings come with a publicly available marketing material that contains all relevant listing information. Figures 1 and 2 show two typical commercial real estate flyers.
1 The US Multiple Listing Services (MLS), governed by the National Association of Realtors, represents the US residential real estate. 2 LoopNet, subsidiary of CoStar Group Inc., is the most heavily trafficked online commercial real estate inventory.

1

Introduction

Digital flyers are the preferred and sometimes only method of conveying offerings information in a 283

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 283­292, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

