Message from the General Chair
Welcome to NAACL-HLT 2015 ­ at its 14th edition! Computational Linguistics has grown into one of the most exciting and diverse research communities, with an ever increasing number of researchers, many big and small companies, and a vibrant community of learners eager to get prepared to take on some of the fun and exciting challenges in the field. This year's NAACL-HLT conference is a testimony to the vibrancy and vitality of this community. Some of the highlights of this year's program include two excellent invited speakers ­ Lillian Lee from Cornell and Fei-fei Li from Stanford ­ who will talk about the exciting research going on at the intersection of our field with social sciences and computer vision; many interesting paper presentations on cutting-edge research in computational linguistics, culminating with three best paper awards that will be presented in a plenary session during the last day of the conference; several excellent studentauthored papers and dissertation proposals as part of the student research workshop; many exciting demos showing the latest in terms of developed systems available in our field; six tutorials on some of the most up-and-coming research topics in computational linguistics; several workshops on diverse topics ranging from multiword expressions and metaphors to clinical psychology and educational applications, including thirteen (!) one-day workshops and S EMEVAL as a two-day workshop; the fourth joint conference on lexical and computational semantics *S EM as a collocated conference; and, last but not least: a country line dance lesson! As with any event of this scale, it would have not been possible without the hard work of a wonderful group of people. I would like to thank Priscilla Rasmussen for the zillions of bits and pieces that she has been doing on an everyday basis, to make sure that every single logistical detail of the forthcoming NAACL-HLT was ironed out. It is no overstatement to say that the success (and fun!) of this year's conference is in large part due to Priscilla. I am also grateful to Hal Daumé III for getting us started on this "NAACL-HLT 2015" journey, and being always willing to help with advice and information from his experience from previous years. Lucy Vanderwende and Daniel Marcu have also graciously agreed to "pass the baton" conversations that were very helpful and informative. I was extremely fortunate to have the chance to work with the best committee ever: Joyce Chai and Anoop Sarkar (program chairs); Cornelia Caragea and Bing Liu (workshop co-chairs); Yang Liu and Thamar Solorio (tutorial co-chairs); Shibamouli Lahiri, Karen Mazidi and Alisa Zhila (student cochairs) and Diana Inkpen and Smaranda Muresan (faculty advisors) for the student research workshop; Matt Gerber, Catherine Havasi, and Finley Lacatusu (demo co-chairs); Annie Louise (student volunteer coordinator); Kevin Cohen (local sponsorship chair); Saif Mohammad (publicity chair); Matt Post and Adam Lopez (publication co-chairs); Peter Ljunglöf (website chair); Aurelia Bunescu (handbook cover designer); Graeme Hirst and Joel Tetreault (treasurers); Asli Celikyilmaz and Julia Hockenmaier (sponsorship co-chairs). I am also grateful to our sponsors for their generous contributions, which made the conference possible: A9, Baobab, Bloomberg, Digital Roots, Goldman Sachs, Google, IBM, Information Sciences Institute, National Science Foundation, Nuance, SDL, University of Washington Computational Linguistics, Yahoo Labs. iv

