References
Hila Becker, Mor Naaman, and Luis Gravano. 2011. Beyond trending topics: Real-world event identication on twitter. In Proceedings of the Conference of the Association for the Advancement of Articial Intelligence. Edward Benson, Aria Haghighi, and Regina Barzilay. 2011. Event discovery in social media feeds. In Proceedings of the Conference of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL). Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick, David Burkett, and Dan Klein. 2012. An empirical investigation of statistical significance in nlp. In Proceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning, EMNLP-CoNLL '12, pages 995­1005, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics. G. Doddington, A. Mitchell, M. Przybocki, L. Ramshaw, S. Strassel, and R. Weischedel. 2004. The automatic content extraction (ace) program ­ tasks, data, and evaluation. In Proceedings of LREC. L. Getoor and B. Taskar, 2007. Introduction to statistical relational learning. MIT Press. R. Grishman and B. Sundheim. 1996. Message understanding conference - 6: A brief history. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Linguistics. Raphael Hoffmann, Congle Zhang, Xiao Ling, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Daniel S. Weld. 2011. Knowledgebased weak supervision for information extraction of overlapping relations. In Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL). Mike Mintz, Steven Bills, Rion Snow, and Daniel Jurafsky. 2009. Distant supervision for relation extraction without labeled data. In Proceedings of the 47th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Sa sa Petrovi´ c, Miles Osborne, and Victor Lavrenko. 2010. Streaming first story detection with application to twitter. In Human Language Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 181­189, Los Angeles, California, June. Association for Computational Linguistics. Ana-Maria Popescu, Marco Pennacchiotti, and Deepa Paranjpe. 2011. Extracting events and event descriptions from twitter. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on World Wide Web. Kevin Reschke, Martin Jankowiak, Mihai Surdeanu, Christopher D. Manning, and Daniel Jurafsky. 2014. Event extraction using distant supervision. In Proceedings of LREC.

Sebastian Riedel, Limin Yao, and Andrew McCallum. 2010. Modeling relations and their mentions without labeled text. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases (ECML PKDD '10). Alan Ritter, Mausam, Oren Etzioni, and Sam Clark. 2012. Open domain event extraction from twitter. In Proceedings of KDD. Takeshi Sakaki, Makoto Okazaki, and Yutaka Matsuo. 2010. Earthquake shakes twitter users: Real-time event detection by social sensors. In Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on World Wide Web, WWW '10, pages 851­860, New York, NY, USA. ACM. Mihai Surdeanu, Julie Tibshirani, Ramesh Nallapati, and Christopher D. Manning. 2012. Multi-instance multilabel learning for relation extraction. In Proceedings of the 2012 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Natural Language Learning (EMNLP-CoNLL). Mihai Surdeanu. 2013. Overview of the tac2013 knowledge base population evaluation: English slot filling and temporal slot filling. In Proceedings of the TACKBP 2013 Workshop.

650

