F1

-dep .501 (-.216)

-head .604 (-.103)

-following .703 (-.014)

-nephews .716 (-.001)

Table 4: Effectiveness of Features

others, we cannot easily make the conclusion that they are of little usage in the identification of ECs. They are not fully explored in the proposed model, but may be vital for EC detection in reality. Worth to mention is that of the several kinds of ECs, the proposed method shows the best performance on ECs of type T, which represents ECs that are the trace of "A'"-movement, which moves a word to a position where no fixed grammatical function is assigned. Here we give an example: "[ ] /seem A /like B." "A /seem (EC) /like B." A is moved to the head of the sentence as the topic (topicalization) and left a trace which is the EC. To detect this EC, we need information about the action "/like", the link verb " /seem" and the arguments "A" and "B". ECs of type T are very common in Chinese, since Chinese is a topic-prominent language. Using distributed representations, it is easy to encode the context information in our feature vectors for EC detection. We also have satisfying results and significant improvements for the other types except * (trace of A-movement), which make up about 1% of all the ECs in the test data. Partly because there are too few * examples in the training data. We need to further improve our models to detect such ECs.

2014). This work together with some previous work that uses classification methods (Cai et al., 2011; Xue and Yang, 2013; Xue, 2007), regards ECs in a sentence as independent to each other and even independent to words that do not appear in the feature vectors. Such an assumption makes it easier to design models and features but does not reflect the grammatic constraints of languages. For example, simple sentences in Chinese contain one and only one subject, whether it is an EC or not. If it is decided there is an EC as a subject in a certain place, there should be no more ECs as subjects in the same sentence. But such an important property is not reflected in these classification models. Methods that adopt parsing techniques take the whole parse tree as input and output a parse tree with EC anchored. So we can view the sentence as a whole and deal with ECs with regarding to all the words in the sentence. Iida and Poesio (2011) also take the grammar constraints into consideration by formulating EC detection as an ILP problem. But they usually yield poor performances compared with classification methods partly because the methods they use can not fully explore the syntactic and semantic features.

5 Related Work
Empty category is a complex problem (Li and Hovy, 2015). Existing methods for EC detection mainly explores syntactic and semantic features using classification models or parsing techniques. Johnson (2002) proposes a simple pattern based algorithm to recover ECs, both the positions and their antecedents in phrase structure trees. Gabbard et al. (2006) presents a two stage parser that uses syntactical features to recover Penn Treebank style syntactic analyses, including the ECs. The first stage, sentences are parse as usual without ECs, and in the second stage, ECs are detected using a learned model with rich text features in the tree structures. Kong and Zhou (2010) reports a tree kernel-based model which takes as input parse trees for EC detection. They also deal with EC resolution, to

4

Discussion

The proposed method is capable of handling large set of labels. Hence it is possible to detect EC types and dependency types simultaneously. Besides, some other NLP tasks can also be formulated as annotation tasks, and therefore can be resolved using the same scheme, such as the frame identification for verbs (Hermann et al.,

269

