taken, however, to do so in a way that emphasizes coverage rather than nesting depth: more weight should not be given to some region in a query or a response just because it is deeply nested (indicating extreme uncertainty). Both the U1 and Sa models do this, but in a rather unnuanced manner. For a more nuanced approach, inspiration can be found in techniques from cross-language IR that give more weight to some term choices than to others. Our basic approach is to downweight terms that are dominated temporally by several other terms, where the amount of downweighting is proportional to the number of terms that cover it. This is implemented by adjusting the contribution of each pseudo-term based on the extent of its overlap with other pseudo-terms. This could be done in a way that would give the greatest weight to either the shortest or the longest nested pseudo-term. Formally, let T = {t1 , t2 , . . . , tn } be the nested term class, ordered by term length. Let l(ti ) denote the length of term ti , in seconds. Further, let w(ti ) =  × l(ti ) 1 +  × l(ti )

be the weight of term ti , where  is a free parameter. For our experiments,  = 0.5. The discounted weight is   i=1 w(ti ) i - 1 d(ti ) =  (1 - w(tj )) otherwise, w(ti ) ×
j =1

where tj refers, implicitly, to other members of T . The factor 1 - w(ti ) is used to discount the weight of ti due to the contribution made by the previous term(s). We assume T to be in descending order and define two heuristics: total weight discounted (UaW) and longest weight discounted (SaW). The former uses Indri's weight operator to specify term weights at query time; the latter uses wsyn. 4.5 Coverage Measure of Descriptiveness (Un) Recall Figure 3, a visual display of pseudo-term overlap within an arbitrary region of speech. Outside of the bounds of that figure there is either silence--no terms to describe a particular segment of time--or a region of terms that describe some 594

other utterance within the overall speech. Of particular note, however, is that within the bounds there are a potentially large number of terms that can be used to describe a region of speech. Thus, the larger the number of terms present, the larger the amount of redundancy in the segment of speech each term describes. This observation motivates our final query methodology: removing redundancy within a region by extracting a seemingly descriptive subset of terms from that region. Here we begin to move beyond the ideas inspired by cross-language IR. Specifically, we posit that an optimal subset contains the beginning and ending terms of the region, along with a series of intra-terms that connect the two. It is with this logic that the unweighted shortest path (coded Un) was conceived. Un attempts to find the subset that captures the most information using the smallest number of terms. Formally, consider a directed graph in which the set of vertexes is the set of pseudo-terms within an overlapping region. For an arbitrary pair of vertexes, u, v  V , there is an outgoing edge from u to v if y (u)  x(v ), where x(·) and y (·) denote the start and end time, respectively, of a given pseudo-term. Further, the weight of such an edge is the difference between these times: w(u, v ) = y (u) - x(v ). Note that an edge between u and v does not exist if they have the same start time, x(u) = x(v ). Let u ^ and v ^ be the endpoints of the graph; that is, for all u, v  P , x(^ u)  x(u), and y (^ v )  y (v ). Our objective is to find the shortest path from u ^ to v ^ that minimizes the standard deviation of the edge weights. Minimizing standard deviation results in a set of terms with more uniform overlaps.

5

Building a Test Collection

The test collection was built using actual spoken content from the Avaj Otalo (Patel et al., 2010) "speech forum," an information service that was regularly used by a select group of farmers in Gujarat. These farmers spoke Gujarati, a language native to western parts of India and spoken by more than 65 million people worldwide. Most of the farmers knew no other language, and approximately 30 per cent were unable to read or write. The idea was to provide a resource for the local farming community to exchange ideas and have their questions an-

