Kemal Oflazer and ` Ilker Kuru¨ oz. 1994. Tagging and morphological disambiguation of turkish text. In Proceedings of the Applied natural language processing. Llu´ is Padr´ o and Evgeny Stanilovsky. 2012. Freeling 3.0: Towards wider multilinguality. In Proceedings of LREC. Slav Petrov and Ryan McDonald. 2012. Overview of the 2012 shared task on parsing the web. In Proceedings of SANCL. Lev Ratinov and Dan Roth. 2009. Design challenges and misconceptions in named entity recognition. In Proceedings of CoNLL. Adwait Ratnaparkhi. 1996. A maximum entropy model for part-of-speech tagging. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Phillip Roelli. 2014. Corpus Corporum. http:// www.mlat.uzh.ch/MLS/. Helmut Schmid, Arne Fitschen, and Ulrich Heid. 2004. SMOR: A German computational morphology covering derivation, composition and inflection. In Proceedings of LREC. Hinrich Sch¨ utze. 1995. Distributional part-of-speech tagging. In Proceedings of EACL. Djam´ e Seddah, Reut Tsarfaty, Sandra K¨ ubler, Marie Candito, Jinho Choi, Rich´ ard Farkas, Jennifer Foster, Iakes Goenaga, Koldo Gojenola, Yoav Goldberg, et al. 2013. Overview of the SPMRL 2013 shared task: Cross-framework evaluation of parsing morphologically rich languages. In SPMRL. Association for Computational Linguistics. Wolfgang Seeker and Jonas Kuhn. 2013. The effects of syntactic features in automatic prediction of morphology. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Noah A. Smith, David A. Smith, and Roy W. Tromble. 2005. Context-based morphological disambiguation with random fields. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Drahom´ ira "johanka" Spoustov´ a, Jan Haji c, Jan Raab, and Miroslav Spousta. 2009. Semi-supervised training for the averaged perceptron pos tagger. In Proceedings of EACL. Uwe Springmann, Dietmar Najock, Hermann Morgenroth, Helmut Schmid, Annette Gotscharek, and Florian Fink. 2014. OCR of historical printings of Latin texts: problems, prospects, progress. In Proceedings of DATeCH. Zsolt Sz´ ant´ o and Rich´ ard Farkas. 2014. Special techniques for constituent parsing of morphologically rich languages. In Proceedings of EACL. Mariona Taul´ e, Maria Ant` onia Mart´ i, and Marta Recasens. 2008. Ancora: Multilevel annotated corpora for Catalan and Spanish. In Proceedings of LREC. Kristina Toutanova, Dan Klein, Christopher D. Manning, and Yoram Singer. 2003. Feature-rich part-of-speech tagging with a cyclic dependency network. In Proceedings of NAACL.

Joseph Turian, Lev Ratinov, and Yoshua Bengio. 2010. Word representations: A simple and general method for semi-supervised learning. In Proceedings of ACL. Veronika Vincze, D´ ora Szauter, Attila Alm´ asi, Gy¨ orgy M´ ora, Zolt´ an Alexin, and J´ anos Csirik. 2010. Hungarian dependency treebank. In Proceedings of LREC. Martin Volk, Anne G¨ ohring, Torsten Marek, and Yvonne Samuelsson. 2010. SMULTRON (version 3.0) -- The Stockholm MULtilingual parallel TReebank. Alexander Yeh. 2000. More accurate tests for the statistical significance of result differences. In Proceedings of COLING. Deniz Yuret and Ferhan T¨ ure. 2006. Learning morphological disambiguation rules for Turkish. In Proceedings of NAACL. Yi Zhang and Rui Wang. 2009. Cross-domain dependency parsing using a deep linguistic grammar. In Proceedings of ACL-AFNLP. J´ anos Zsibrita, Veronika Vincze, and Rich´ ard Farkas. 2013. magyarlanc: A toolkit for morphological and dependency parsing of Hungarian. In Proceedings of RANLP.

536

