Message from the Program Chairs
Welcome to the 2015 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics ­ Human Language Technologies or NAACL HLT 2015 for short. This year, we received the largest number of submissions in the history of NAACL: a total of 714 submissions with 402 long paper submissions and 312 short papers submissions. From these, 117 long papers (62 oral presentations and 55 poster presentations) and 69 short papers (24 oral presentations and 45 poster presentations) were accepted to appear at the conference. The submissions to NAACL HLT 2015 were assigned to 18 technical areas including a new topic area called Language and Vision. This track was introduced with an intent to broaden research on natural language processing that is situated in a rich visual and perceptual context. We received 16 submissions for this area and seven of them will be presented at the conference. For NAACL HLT 2015 we initiated a meta review process, where each paper received an analysis of the merits of the paper from the area chair's perspective that was based on the reviewer comments, the reviewer discussion and the author rebuttal. We found the meta reviews very helpful in consolidating the reviews and providing justifications for final decisions. As this was an experiment this year, the meta reviews were not sent to the authors. Based on comments from reviewers, nominations from area chairs, and rankings from the best paper committee, three papers were selected to receive the best paper awards at the conference. Continuing the tradition, NAACL HLT 2015 will feature 19 papers which were accepted for publication in the Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics (TACL). The TACL papers were split into 10 oral presentations and 9 poster presentatons. We are very pleased to have two exciting keynote talks: one by Professor Lillian Lee (Cornell University) and the other by Professor Fei-fei Li (Stanford University). There are many people to thank for who have worked diligently to make NAACL HLT 2015 possible. Thanks to the 32 area chairs for their hard work on recruiting reviewers, managing reviews, leading discussions, and making recommendations. All the area chairs are listed in the Program Committee section of the Front Matter. Thanks to Chris Callison-Burch, David Mimno, Sameer Pradhan, and Philip Resnik for stepping in to serve as area co-chairs at the last minute when we were faced with an unexpectedly large number of submissions in some tracks. Following what was done in the last NAACL conference, we used the paper assignment tool developed by Mark Dredze to assign papers to reviewers. Thanks to Mark Dredze and Jiang Guo for their hard work on assigning papers to reviewers based on their preferences. We had to especially rely on this tool this year because the distribution of submissions across areas was very different from past trends. This program certainly would not be possible without the help of the 460 reviewers. Their names are listed in the Program Committee section. In particular, 116 reviewers from this list were recognized by the area chairs as best reviewers who have turned in exceptionally well-written and constructive reviews and who have actively engaged in the post-rebuttal discussions. The names of the best reviewers are vi

