ward (a) and (b), we find that achieving the task is non-trivial as we build on and diverge from related computational linguistics tasks (e.g. time expression recognition) and utilize a classifier capturing nonlinear relationships and interactions. Towards (c), we show how our measure usefully informs psychological theory by relating our human assessments to other psychological variables at a scale not easily explored, and by tracking changes in temporal orientation over time.

2

Background

Researchers and philosophers have long been interested in the subjective experience of time: how individuals relate to their past, are mindful of their present, and envision their futures (James, 1890; Lewin, 1942). Similarly, computational studies have a rich history on extracting temporal relationships beginning decades ago (Allen, 1983). Here, we provide some background on temporal orientation's broader relevance, on computational techniques used to extract temporal information from text, and on related user-level prediction tasks. Temporal orientation and its correlates. Studies on the human subjective experience of time are filled with diverse measurement methods, varying in their emphasis on cognitive, affective, and/or motivational aspects.1 Decisions are influenced by the past, present, and mental simulations of possible futures (Seligman et al., 2013). One widely studied aspect of subjective time is temporal orientation, or an individual's tendency to habitually emphasize past, present, or future temporal frames (Boyd and Zimbardo, 2005). Understanding how and why individuals differ in their temporal orientation, can, for example suggest how they can achieve favorable outcomes in areas of life that require substantial long-term planning, including education, higher status occupations, and physical health (Zimbardo and Boyd, 1999; Boyd and Zimbardo, 2005; Steinberg et al., 2009). Consistent links have been established between temporal orientation and a psychological factor associated with planning, health, and risky behav1

For a review, see Strathman et al., 2005.

iors: the personality trait of conscientiousness. Conscientious individuals are characterized as selfdisciplined, orderly, planful, and reliable (Roberts et al., 2013). Past research has established that highly conscientious people exhibit more future- and less present-oriented (Zimbardo and Boyd, 1999; Webley and Nyhus, 2006; Adams and Nettle, 2009). We use a measure of conscientiousness from the wellestablished "Big-five" or Five Factor Model of personality (Goldberg, 1990; McCrae and John, 1992). The other four factors, extraversion (e.g. active, outgoing, talkative), agreeableness (e.g. kind, trusting, generous), neuroticism (e.g. touchy, anxious, depressive), and openness (e.g. intellectual, artistic, insightful), have been found to have little connection with temporal orientation (Zimbardo and Boyd, 1999). Other studies have established consistent links between temporal orientation and demographic characteristics. In particular, as one ages they think less about the immediate present and more about the future (Friedman, 2000; Nurmi, 2005; Steinberg et al., 2009), and females tend to think a bit more about the future than males (Keough et al., 1999). However, detailed age trends are not well understood, with studies mostly focusing on adolescents or collegeaged students. For many other important outcomes, such as happiness or well-being, past research leaves us unclear as to the relationship with temporal orientation. Some suggest future-oriented individuals are happier as they engage in more provident behaviors such as saving money and establishing healthier habit (Desmyter and De Raedt, 2012; Diener et al., 2013). This is supported by the connection between future orientation and less depression (Zimbardo and Boyd, 1999). However, others argue that emphasis on the future inhibits ones ability to reflect wisely on the past and savor present experiences (Boniwell et al., 2010). Our study explores this relationship at an unprecedented scale, utilizing the Satisfaction with Life Scale (Diener et al., 1985) and the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale, the CES-D (Radloff, 1977). We also look at previously unexplored variables, IQ and number of friends, for which links with temporal orientation seem plausible (e.g. one might suspect it is smart to think about the future, or wonder if one's reflection

410

