System T.O. IPA M-C AT A LG SR SS

viscous viscous vIsk@s viscous vIskAs viscous viscus

viscosity viscosity vIskAs@ti viscous·ity vIskAs·Iti viscosity viscosity

System T.O. IPA M-C AT A LG SR SS

Orth 2.32 1.00 2.51 1.33 2.27 1.60

Phon 2.10 1.00 2.36 1.72 2.15 1.72

Morph 96.11 93.94 100.00 98.90 96.57 94.72

Table 4: Example spellings according to various systems.

Table 5: Orthographic, phonemic and morphemic optimality of spelling systems.

where Pc is the probability of a grapheme substring in the dictionary, and Pi is the probability that the grapheme substring is pronounced as the phoneme substring i. Note that this formulation is not contingent on any set of rules. In a similar way, we compute the phonemic perplexity in the opposite direction, from phonemes to letters. The orthographic and the phonemic perplexity values quantify the transparency of a spelling system with respect to reading and writing, respectively. 5.2 Morphemic consistency

As an example, consider the word set consisting of six word-forms: snip, snips, snipped, snipping, snippet, and snippets. The first two words, which represent the base morpheme as snip, receive a perfect score of 1 for morphemic consistency. The remaining four words, which have the morpheme as snipp, obtain the score of 75% because one of the four phonemes is spelled differently from the base form. For free morphemes, the base form is simply the spelling of the morpheme, but for bound morphemes, we take the majority spelling of the morpheme.

Little (2001) proposes to calculate the morphemic optimality of English spellings by computing the average percentage of "undisturbed letters" in the polymorphemic words with respect to the base form. For example, four of five letters of the base form voice are present in voicing, which translates into 80% optimal. The examples given in the paper allow us to interpret this measure as a function of edit distance normalized by the length of the base form. We make three modifications to the original method. First, we compute the average over all words in the lexicon rather than over word sets, which would give disproportionate weight to words in smaller word sets. Second, we normalize edit distance by the number of phonemes in a word, rather than by the number of letters in a spelling, in order to avoid penalizing systems that use shorter spellings. Finally, we consider edit operations to apply to substrings aligned to substrings of phonemes, rather than to individual symbols. In this way, the maximum number of edit operations is equal to the number of phonemes. The modified measure yields a score between 0 and 100%, with the latter value representing morphemic optimality. 542

6

Quantitative comparison

We compare the traditional English orthography (T.O.) to three hypothetical systems: phonemic transcription (IPA), morpheme concatenation (MC AT), and the orthography generated by the algorithm described in Section 3 (A LG). In addition, we consider two proposals submitted to the English Spelling Society: a minimalist spelling reform (SR) of Gibbs (1984), and the more comprehensive SoundSpel (SS) of Rondthaler and Edward (1986). Table 4 lists the spellings of the words viscous and viscosity in various orthographies. Table 5 shows the values of orthographic and phonemic transparency, as well as morphemic consistency for the evaluated spelling systems. By definition, phonemic transcription obtains the optimal transparency scores of 1, while simple morphological concatenation receives a perfect 100% in terms of morphemic consistency. The results in Table 5 indicate that traditional orthography scores poorly according to all three measures. Its low orthographic and phonemic transparency is to be expected, but its low morphemic

