as WordNet or FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998). Lexical patterns (e.g., `not just x but y ') are used both to extract words that belong to the same scale and to determine the direction of the ordering (e.g., in the above pattern, x is weaker than y ). However, this extraction process gives noisy results that require filtering using an electronic thesaurus. The domain of application is thus restricted to words that exist in an electronic thesaurus. Second, previous work is limited to the study of adjectives. In this paper, we propose a fully automated pipeline that uses structural patterns to extract gradable terms from a corpus, cluster them into groups that reflect the same semantic scale of comparison, and finally rank them using de Melo and Bansal's MILP technique to establish an ordering among them. We also explore how the technique fares on domain-specific (biomedical) text, deriving scales for domain-specific terms that might not exist in thesauri. Our approach achieves a comparable performance to previous studies on scalar adjectives, and can be reliably extended to adverbs.

2

Related work

Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown (1993) present the first work on automatically clustering adjectives that belong to the same scale, identifying scalar adjectives based on the intuition that similar nouns are modified by similar adjectives. They use a hierarchical clustering algorithm on a newswire corpus for grouping similar adjectives, but do not provide ranking among a given cluster of related adjectives. Assuming a pair of related adjectives, de Marneffe et al. (2010) use reviews from the Internet Movie Database and their associated ratings to infer an ordering in the adjective pair. Kim and de Marneffe (2013) also obtain an ordering given a pair of adjectives, using distributional word vectors derived from a recursive neural network. Sheinman et al. (2013) and de Melo and Bansal (2013) present similar approaches, which make use of WordNet dumbbells to determine words that belong to the same scale as proposed in Sheinman et al. (2012). A WordNet dumbbell is a representation involving an antonym pair (e.g., small and large) as two ends of a semantic scale with semantically similar adjectives arranged in a radial fash484

ion around each adjective. The antonym acting as a centroid and its synonyms as members of a cluster represent words that most likely participate in the same scale. For example, the antonym pair (small, large) results in the dumbbell with clusters (small, tiny, pocket-size, smallish) and (large, gigantic, monstrous, huge) at the two ends. It should be noted that even with such a representation, there can be words that fall into the same WordNet synset but do not participate in the scalar relationship (e.g., violent with respect to supernatural and affected). This is primarily because of polysemy and semantic drift (de Melo and Bansal, 2013). Sheinman et al. (2013) present a two-step approach for establishing an ordering among scalar adjectives. They extract adjectives from the Web using lexical patterns indicative of the direction of the scalar relationship between a pair of adjectives. Two sets of patterns are defined: mild patterns in which participating words are such that the first word has a weaker semantic intensity than the second word (e.g., ` but not ' ­ good but not great); and intense patterns, in which the first word has a stronger semantic intensity than the second word (e.g., `not  but still ' ­ not freezing but still cold). In the first step, they assign a positive score to an adjective if it is seen as a part of the intense pattern and a negative score if seen as part of the mild pattern. In the second step, they use these scores to partition the adjectives into two subsets one representing mild and the other representing intense adjectives. They perform this partitioning recursively to obtain a complete ordering for a given cluster of adjectives from a WordNet dumbbell. de Melo and Bansal (2013) improve upon Sheinman et al. (2013) by refining their lexical patterns, and refer to them as "strong-weak" and "weakstrong" patterns. Using frequencies of occurrence for a pair of adjectives across the strong-weak and weak-strong patterns in a corpus, they define an overall weak-strong score. They optimize for this score using MILP. The constraints of the MILP model two types of strength relationships: the strength relationships between two adjectives in a pair with a possible third adjective, and synonymy relationship between two adjectives based on information from an external resource. Given a cluster of terms, the MILP produces an ordering of the

