Grounded Semantic Parsing for Complex Knowledge Extraction
Ankur P. Parikh School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University apparikh@cs.cmu.edu Hoifung Poon Kristina Toutanova Microsoft Research Redmond, WA, USA hoifung,kristout@microsoft.com

Abstract
Recently, there has been increasing interest in learning semantic parsers with indirect supervision, but existing work focuses almost exclusively on question answering. Separately, there have been active pursuits in leveraging databases for distant supervision in information extraction, yet such methods are often limited to binary relations and none can handle nested events. In this paper, we generalize distant supervision to complex knowledge extraction, by proposing the first approach to learn a semantic parser for extracting nested event structures without annotated examples, using only a database of such complex events and unannotated text. The key idea is to model the annotations as latent variables, and incorporate a prior that favors semantic parses containing known events. Experiments on the GENIA event extraction dataset show that our approach can learn from and extract complex biological pathway events. Moreover, when supplied with just five example words per event type, it becomes competitive even among supervised systems, outperforming 19 out of 24 teams that participated in the original shared task.

Information Extraction Complex Event

(NEG-REG,BCL,RFLAT) (NEG-REG,IL-10,RFLAT)

(POS-REG,BCL,(NEG-REG,IL-10,RFLAT))
ID T1 TYPE CAUSE THEME TRIGGER BCL RFLAT IL-10 stimulates inhibition

PROTEIN -

GENIA Event Annotation

T2
T3 E1 E2

PROTEIN PROTEIN POS-REG T1 NEG-REG T3

E2 T2

Figure 1: Given sentence "BCL stimulates inhibition of RFLAT by IL-10", information extraction focuses on classifying simple relations among entities (top), whereas ideally we want to extract the complex event that captures important contextual information (middle), as exemplified by the GENIA event annotation (bottom).

1

Introduction

The goal of semantic parsing is to map text into a complete and detailed meaning representation (Mooney, 2007). Supervised approaches for learning a semantic parser require annotated examples,
This research was conducted during the author's internship at Microsoft Research.


which are expensive and time-consuming to acquire (Zelle and Mooney, 1993; Zettlemoyer and Collins, 2005; Zettlemoyer and Collins, 2007). As a result, there has been rising interest in learning semantic parsers from indirect supervision. Examples include unsupervised approaches that leverage distributional similarity by recursive clustering (Poon and Domingos, 2009; Poon and Domingos, 2010; Titov and Klementiev, 2011), semi-supervised approaches that learn from dialog context (Artzi and Zettlemoyer, 2011), grounded approaches that learn from annotated question-answer pairs (Clarke et al., 2010; Liang et al., 2011) or virtual worlds (Chen and Mooney, 2011; Artzi and Zettlemoyer, 2013). Such progress is exciting, but most applications focus on question answering, where the semantic parser is used to convert natural-language questions into formal queries. In contrast, complex knowledge extraction represents a relatively untapped ap-

756
Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 756­766, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

