documents. Higher accuracy is preferable in scenarios like Web search, where it is important to accurately trigger structured results. Error Analysis: The relative looseness of the extraction patterns applied to queries causes interpretations containing undesirable tokens to be extracted. In addition, part-of-speech tagging errors lead to interpretations receiving artificially low penalty scores, and therefore being considered to be of higher quality than they should be. For example, phd in the interpretation "job for phd in chemistry" is incorrectly tagged as a past participle verb. As a result, the computed penalty score is too low. Occasionally, the presence of additional tokens within an interpretation is harmless (e.g., "issues of controversy in society" for "controversial issues", "foods allowed on a high protein low carb diet" for "high protein low carb foods"), if not necessary (e.g., "dances with brazilian origin" for "brazilian dances", "artists of the surrealist movement" for "surrealist artists", "options with weekly expirations" for "weekly options"). But often it leads to incorrect interpretations (e.g., "towns of alaska map" for "alaska towns", "processes in chemical vision" for "chemical processes"). Variants of modifiers occasionally lead to incorrect interpretations for a noun phrase, even if the interpretations may be correct for the individual variants. The phenomenon is an instance of semantic drift, wherein variants do share many properties but still diverge in others. Examples are "words that are bleeped similarly" extracted for "bleeped words" via the variant bleepedspelled. Separately, linguistic constructs that negate or at least alter the desired meaning affect the understanding of text in general and also affect the extraction of interpretations in particular. Examples are "heaters with no electricity" for "electric heaters", and "animal that used to be endangered" for "endangered animal".

ally employed (Fader et al., 2011) in open-domain information extraction. Second, in (Nastase and Strube, 2008), relations encoded implicitly within Wikipedia categories are converted into explicit relations. As an example, the relation <deconstructing harry, directed, woody allen> is obtained from the fact that deconstructing harry is listed under "movies directed by woody allen" in Wikipedia. The method in (Nastase and Strube, 2008) relies on manually-compiled knowledge, and does not attempt to interpret compound noun phrases. Since relevant interpretations paraphrase the noun phrases which they interpret, a related area of research is paraphrase acquisition (Madnani and Dorr, 2010; Ganitkevitch et al., 2013). Previous methods for the acquisition of paraphrases of compound noun phrases (Kim and Nakov, 2011; Van de Cruys et al., 2013) operate over documents, and may rely on text analysis tools including syntactic parsing (Nakov and Hearst, 2013). In contrast, the method proposed here extracts interpretations from queries, and applies part of speech tagging. Queries were used as a textual data source in other tasks in open-domain information extraction (Jain and Pennacchiotti, 2010; Pantel et al., 2012).

6

Conclusion

5

Related Work

Relevant interpretations extracted from queries act as a potential bridge between facts, on one hand, and class labels, on the other hand, available for instances. The former might be inferred from the latter and vice versa. There are two previous studies that are relevant to the task of extracting facts from existing noun phrases. First, (Yahya et al., 2014) extract facts for attributes of instances, without requiring the presence of the verbal predicates usu343

Interpretations extracted from queries explain the roles that modifiers play within longer noun phrases. Current work explores the interpretation of noun phrases containing multiple modifiers (e.g., "(french)M 1 ( healthcare)M 2 (companies)H " by separately interpreting "(french)M 1 (companies)H " and "(healthcare)M 2 (companies)H "); the grouping of lexically different but semantically equivalent interpretations (e.g., "dances of brazilian origin", "dances from brazil"); the collection of more variants from Wikipedia and other resources; the incorporation of variants of heads (physicistsscientists for interpreting the phrase "belgian physicists"), which likely need to be more conservatively applied than for modifiers; and the use of query sessions, as an alternative to sets of disjoint queries.

Acknowledgments
The paper benefits from comments from Jutta Degener, Mihai Surdeanu and Susanne Riehemann. Data extracted by Haixun Wang and Jian Li is the source of the IsA vocabulary of noun phrases used in the evaluation.

