tive, due to the inherent difficulties associated with collecting clinical data. Furthermore, we assumed that the diagnostic group is known a priori, allowing us to train and test on each group separately. We analyzed our results to see how the noise introduced by our segmentation affects various syntactic complexity measures. Some measures (e.g. T-units) were robust to the noise, while others (e.g. Yngve depth) were not. When using such automatic methods for the analysis of speech data, researchers should be aware of the unequal effects on different complexity metrics. For the more practical goal of distinguishing between different patient groups, we found that most measures that were significant for this task using the manual transcripts remained so when using the automatically segmented ones, and the direction of the difference was the same in the manual and automatic transcripts. In all cases where a significant difference between the groups was detected, the direction of the difference was the same in the manual and automatic transcripts. These results indicate that imperfect segmentation methods might still be useful for some applications, since they affect the data in a systematic way. Although we evaluated our methods against human-annotated data, there is some uncertainty about whether a single gold standard for the sentence segmentation of speech truly exists. Miller and Weinert (1998), among others, argue that the concept of a sentence as defined in written language does not necessarily exist in spoken language. In future work, it would useful to compare the interannotator agreement between trained human annotators to determine an upper bound for the accuracy.

Acknowledgments
Many thanks to Bruna Seixas Lima for providing the manual annotations. This work was supported by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), Grant #MOP-82744, and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC).

References
Steven Bird, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper. 2009. Natural language processing with Python. " O'Reilly Media, Inc.".

Maximilian Bisani and Hermann Ney. 2008. Jointsequence models for grapheme-to-phoneme conversion. Speech Communication, 50(5):434­451. Kelly Ann Bridges and Diana Van Lancker Sidtis. 2013. Formulaic language in Alzheimer's disease. Aphasiology, pages 1­12. Michael Brookes. 1997. Voicebox: Speech processing toolbox for Matlab. www.ee.ic.ac.uk/hp/ staff/dmb/voicebox/voicebox.html. Sebastien Cuendet, Elizabeth Shriberg, Benoit Favre, James Fung, and Dilek Hakkani-T¨ ur. 2007. An analysis of sentence segmentation features for broadcast news, broadcast conversations, and meetings. Searching Spontaneous Conversational Speech, pages 43­49. Karen D. Emmorey. 1987. The neurological substrates for prosodic aspects of speech. Brain and Language, 30(2):305­320. Kathleen Fraser, Frank Rudzicz, Naida Graham, and Elizabeth Rochon. 2013. Automatic speech recognition in the diagnosis of primary progressive aphasia. In Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Speech and Language Processing for Assistive Technologies, pages 47­54. Kathleen C. Fraser, Jed A. Meltzer, Naida L. Graham, Carol Leonard, Graeme Hirst, Sandra E. Black, and Elizabeth Rochon. 2014. Automated classification of primary progressive aphasia subtypes from narrative speech transcripts. Cortex, 55:43­60. Marsal Gavalda, Klaus Zechner, et al. 1997. High performance segmentation of spontaneous speech using part of speech and trigger word information. In Proceedings of the Fifth Conference on Applied Natural Language Processing, pages 12­15. Association for Computational Linguistics. M. L. Gorno-Tempini, A. E. Hillis, S. Weintraub, A. Kertesz, M. Mendez, S. F. Cappa, J. M. Ogar, J. D. Rohrer, S. Black, B. F. Boeve, F. Manes, N. F. Dronkers, R. Vandenberghe, K. Rascovsky, K. Patterson, B. L. Miller, D. S. Knopman, J. R. Hodges, M. M. Mesulam, and M. Grossman. 2011. Classification of primary progressive aphasia and its variants. Neurology, 76:1006­1014. William Jarrold, Bart Peintner, David Wilkins, Dimitra Vergryi, Colleen Richey, Maria Luisa Gorno-Tempini, and Jennifer Ogar. 2014. Aided diagnosis of dementia type through computer-based analysis of spontaneous speech. In Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology, pages 27­36. Dan Klein and Christopher D. Manning. 2003. Accurate unlexicalized parsing. In Proceedings of the 41st Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 423­430.

870

