refer to salient entities in the environment (such as the speaker, hearer or pragmatically accessible referent) without requiring any introduction in the preceding text. Figure 1 shows an example conversation in which zero pronouns are frequently used to refer to speaker or listener, and would be translated to English as "I" or "you." We propose a model for resolving deictic zero pronouns that draws inspiration from ideas in Centering Theory (Grosz et al., 1995): discourses tend to settle on a particular focus for a time, before switching. Furthermore, we presume that when a switch happens, there is likely to be an overt cue of this. For example, in Figure 1, the initial focus on T is signaled with the overt second person pronoun in the first utterance; the switch of focus to S in the third utterance is also signaled by an overt "you." However, at that point, the focus remains on S for several utterances until "The last round. . . " at which point it switches away from the speakers. It is brought back to S in the last utterance, which can be inferred from the fact that S is the most recent focus that fits the required semantic constraints. To account for these phenomena, we develop a novel sequential model for zero pronoun resolution that explicitly tracks the conversation focus in a dialogue (Section 3). We test, using data from Chinese SMS ("texting") dialogues, the hypothesis that our model can predict the identity of pronouns (at a granularity of the person attribute: first, second, or third person--with particular focus on first and second person) based on a variety of features of the utterance context, without reference to a particular antecedent (Section 4.3). In this way, we address a much higher percentage of the zero pronouns found in Chinese texts, and particularly in dialogue. Our second contribution is to show that one can train a zero pronoun resolution system using supervision coming from English translations of the Chinese text (Section 2.2). This obviates the need for expensive linguistic annotation of Chinese and allows us to use plentiful parallel data to train our model. Our results confirm that even though this "translation as annotation" process is noisy, it is still possible to learn on large amounts of "bronze standard" data. 495

2

Linguistic motivation

Handling zero pronouns in Chinese (or other prodrop language) involves two separate tasks: (1) Zero pronoun identification: locating and marking the gaps corresponding to zero pronouns; and (2) Zero pronoun resolution: determining the entity referred to by the zero pronoun. Our focus is the latter task. Zero pronoun resolution, like general pronoun resolution, is almost universally approached as a problem of linking a pronoun to an overt noun phrase antecedent in the text. However, while some zero pronouns do have overt noun phrase antecedents, many other zero pronouns do not. In fact, (Zhao and Ng, 2007) report that just 52% of zero pronouns in their training set (and 46% of zero pronouns in their test set) are "anaphoric." Kong and Zhou (Kong and Zhou, 2010) report just 41%. Some zero pronouns fail to link to an antecedent because they refer to facts or events described by larger phrases or full sentences earlier in the text, preventing coreference with a single noun phrase. Other zero pronouns, particularly in dialogue settings, are deictic, pointing to salient entities in the environment without requiring introduction by an overt mention in the text. 2.1 Dialogue focus

A central principle of document cohesion that underlies frameworks such as Centering Theory (Grosz et al., 1995) states that discourses tend to settle on a particular focus for a time, before eventually switching to a new one. The status of a particular focus within this flow of discourse is typically signaled by the form of the expression chosen to point to it. When a focus is introduced (or returned to), a full (overt) noun phrase is generally used to indicate it. While that entity remains in focus, subsequent mentions can be realized with less explicit forms. In English, these less explicit forms are overt pronouns. In Chinese (and pro-drop languages more generally), these focus continuations are generally realized as zero pronouns. We see in this example an illustration of these discourse principles: 1. In pro-drop languages (Chinese), overt pronouns introduce switches in focus, while zero

