Ê Ê @ @ s 2 b @ Ê

t t t t t t

@ @ A A A A

m m m m m m

atom z atoms I k atomic I k l i atomically I k subatomic

Table 1: Extracting the common morphemic representation .

are preferred to post-alveolar ones like [S], in order to account for palatalization. Since our representations are not intended to represent actual underlying forms, the choice of a particular phoneme hierarchy affects only the shape of the generated word spellings. 3.2 Word representations Ideally, polymorphemic words should be represented by a simple concatenation of the corresponding morpheme representations. However, for languages that are not purely concatenative, this approach may produce forms that are far from the phonemic realizations. For example, assuming that the words deceive and deception share a morpheme, a spelling `deceive∑ion' would fail to convey the actual pronunciation [d@sEpS@n]. The predictability principle of Chomsky and Halle implies that phonetic variation should only be indicated where it is not predictable by general rules. Unfortunately, the task of establishing such a set of general rules, which we discuss in Section 7, is not at all straightforward. Instead, we assume the existence of an oracle (line 12 in Figure 1) which predicts the surface pronunciation of each phoneme found in the concatenation of the morphemic forms. In our algorithm (lines 13≠18), the default spelling of the word is composed of the representations of its constituent morphemes conjoined with a separator character. If the predicted pronunciation matches the actual surface phoneme, the "underlying" phoneme is preserved; otherwise, it is substituted by the surface phoneme. This modification helps to maintain the resulting word spellings reasonably close to the surface pronunciation. For example, consider the word sincerity. Suppose that our algorithm derives the representations of the two underlying morphemes as `sInsir' and 540

Stops Affricates Fricatives Nasals Liquids Glides Diphthongs Tense vowels Lax vowels Reduced vowels deletion

bdgptk dZ tS DvzZTfsSh mnN lr jw aI OI aU ieouA ÊEOU2 I@

Table 2: Hierarchy of phonemes.

`Iti'. If, given the input `sInsir∑Iti', the predictor correctly generates the surface pronunciation [sInsEr@ti], we adopt the input as our final spelling. However, if the prediction is [sInsir@ti] instead, our final spelling becomes `sInsEr∑Iti', in order to avoid a potentially misleading spelling. Since the second vowel was incorrectly predicted, we determine it to be unpredictable, and thus represent it with the surface phoneme, rather than the underlying one. The choice of the predictor affects only the details of the generated spellings.

4

Implementation

In this section, we describe the specific data and tools that we use in our implementation of the algorithm described in the previous section. 4.1 Data

For the implementation of our spelling generation algorithm, we require a lexicon that contains morphological segmentation of phonemic representations of words. Since we have been been unsuccessful in finding such a lexicon, we extract the necessary information from two different resources: the CELEX lexical database (Baayen et al., 1995), which includes morphological analysis of words, and the Combilex speech lexicon (Richmond et al., 2009), which contains high-quality phonemic transcriptions. After intersecting the lexicons, and pruning it of proper nouns, function words, duplicate forms, and multi-word entries, we are left with approximately 51,000 word-forms that are annotated both morphologically and phonemically.

