on the past is related to their popularity as measure by number of friends). Related work. Studying temporal language is by no means new to the field of computational linguistics (or NLP). Most recently, time annotation has gained greater interest with a successive sequence of three SemEval tasks (TempEval-1, -2 and -3). The SemEval competitions have provided data sets that facilitate the comparison of different methods for evaluating time expressions, events, and temporal relations (Verhagen et al., 2007; Verhagen et al., 2010; UzZaman et al., 2013). Such research on temporal text analysis generally focuses on determining when events start and end or how they relate temporally to each other; specific goals include information extraction of time-dependent facts from news media (Ling and Weld, 2010; Talukdar et al., 2012), or extracting personal histories in social media (Wen et al., 2013). In contrast, our goal is to find the temporal orientation of people. Of the numerous TempEval tasks, we build upon those which identify time expressions and resolve their expressed time and date relative to the time of writing (e.g. the time expression `yesterday' in a document written on January 15, 2014 is resolved as January 14, 2014). Many methods have been used, ranging from hand-crafting rules to machine learning models. Unlike other areas of natural language processing where stochastic techniques dominate, rule-based systems have been quite competitive in time expressions recognition, especially in less domain dependent settings or for relaxed matching tasks (UzZaman et al., 2013). A number of useful toolkits have been produced for temporal text analysis (Verhagen et al., 2005; Ling and Weld, 2010; Chang and Manning, 2012). In this work, we use Stanford University's rulebased temporal tagger, SUTime, which geve accuracy in line with the state-of-the-art systems at identifying time expressions at TempEval (Chang and Manning, 2012).2 SUTime, built on top of Stanford's part-of-speech and named entity taggers, laOur goals differ slightly from the TempEval accuracy criteria. For example, when SUTime fails to distinguish "one and a half weeks" from "one week", it does not affect our performance. However, other errors, such as confusing the verb `march' with the month March will harm our accuracy.
2

bels times, durations, intervals, and relative times compared to the time at which the document was written. Our work fits a growing tradition of computational work to better understand people based on their online behavior. Much of this type of work uses human properties to better perform traditional computational linguistics tasks, while others focus particularly on predicting user attributes. User network information has been used for tweet summarization or filtering (Panigrahy et al., 2012; Chang et al., 2013; Feng and Wang, 2013). Others utilize psychological knowledge about people, such as exploiting the human tendency to report more positive extreme feelings than negative in order to improve on sentiment analysis (Guerra et al., 2014). Toward attribute prediction, a large proportion of works have focused on demographics (Argamon et al., 2009; Goswami et al., 2009; Burger et al., 2011; Al Zamal et al., 2012; Bergsma et al., 2013; Sap et al., 2014). and personality prediction (Mairesse et al., 2007; Iacobelli et al., 2011; Schwartz et al., 2013; Park et al., 2015). Human temporal orientation, as we study it here, differs from previous studies of user attribute prediction in that temporal orientation calls for consideration of additional language features (some more sophisticated, such as time expressions), and exploration of classification techniques (e.g. that can capture non-linear relationships or interactions). We also add multidisciplinary applications, showing not just how accurately our models predict, but also studying how temporal orientation relates to other factors, for example, by weighing in on conflicting literature as to whether people who are more futureoriented are more satisfied with their life.

3

Method

We develop a methodology for measuring a given social media user's temporal orientation. First, we build a classifier to label whether a message discusses the past, present, or future, and then we quantify users' temporal orientation as the percentage of their messages in each category. We train a variety of supervised classifiers and explore many features in order to label the temporal

411

