Subsentential Sentiment on a Shoestring: A Crosslingual Analysis of Compositional Classification
Michael Haas and Yannick Versley Institute for Computational Linguistics University of Heidelberg {haas,versley}@cl.uni-heidelberg.de

Abstract
Sentiment analysis has undergone a shift from document-level analysis, where labels expresses the sentiment of a whole document or whole sentence, to subsentential approaches, which assess the contribution of individual phrases, in particular including the composition of sentiment terms and phrases such as negators and intensifiers. Starting from a small sentiment treebank modeled after the Stanford Sentiment Treebank of Socher et al. (2013), we investigate suitable methods to perform compositional sentiment classification for German in a data-scarce setting, harnessing cross-lingual methods as well as existing general-domain lexical resources.

1

Introduction

In sentiment classification, we find a general tendency from document-level classification towards more fine-grained approaches that yield a more detailed appraisal of the judgement performed in the text - in particular, using composition over syntactic structure to get a more detailed approach over phrases. For English movie reviews, work using the Stanford Sentiment Treebank (SSTb) has shown that such subsentential sentiment information can yield approaches with both very high accuracy (Socher et al., 2013; Dong et al., 2014; Hall et al., 2014) and precise information about the role of each phrase ­ information which can subsequently used for extracting or summarizing the sentiment expressed in the text. The effort for creating a sentiment treebank such as the SSTb, however, seems prohibitive if we 694

wanted to create such a resource for each pair of relevant domain and language: Compared to document-level annotations for sentiment, which are easy to come by (e.g., star ratings), annotating individual syntactic phrases requires considerable effort. The main focus of this paper is the question if and how it is possible to reach sensible performance for compositional sentiment classification when we only have limited resources to spend on an in-language, in-domain sentiment treebank. For this goal, we use a new resource, the Heidelberg Sentiment Treebank (HeiST), which is a German-language counterpart to the Stanford Sentiment Treebank in the sense that it makes explicit the composition of sentiment expression over syntactic phrases. Our experiments on HeiST provide a direct comparison of different techniques for harnessing cross-lingual, cross-domain, or cross-task information, and are the first of this kind to specifically target compositional sentiment analysis. Figure 1 (next page) shows a schematic overview of the experiments: beyond supervised baseline experiments using SVM classification and a supervised RNTN model (section 3), we evaluated crosslingual projection (section 4), lexicon-based approaches (section 5), as well as semi-supervised approaches based on word clusters (section 6).

2

Related Work

The starting point for our research is the idea that the sentiment of larger stretches of text can be calculated through composition over smaller stretches of text, which was investigated in a learning framework by both Yessenalina and Cardie (2011) and Socher et al. (2011, 2012), both learning in a compositional

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 694­704, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

