handling of language ambiguity and, overall, introduces a restrictive upper bound on their performance. Moreover, these approaches are especially problematic for languages with freer word order than English, where richer features are necessary to account for interactions between surface realizations, syntax and semantics. For example, the two most accurate previous models (Titov and Klementiev, 2012a; Lang and Lapata, 2011a) both treat the role induction task as clustering of argument signatures: an argument signature encodes key syntactic properties of an argument realization and consists of a syntactic function of an argument along with additional information such as an argument position with respect to the predicate. Though it is possible to design signatures which mostly map to a single role, this set-up limits oracle performance even for English, and can be quite restrictive for languages with freer word order. These shortcomings are inherent limitations of the modeling frameworks used in previous work (primarily generative modeling or agglomerative clustering), and cannot be addressed by simply incorporating more features or relaxing some of the modeling assumptions. In this work, we propose a method for effective unsupervised estimation of feature-rich models of semantic roles. We demonstrate that reconstructionerror objectives, which have been shown to be effective primarily for training neural networks, are well suited for inducing feature-rich log-linear models of semantics. Our model consists of two components: a log-linear feature-rich semantic role labeler and a tensor-factorization model which captures interaction between semantic roles and argument fillers. When estimated jointly on unlabeled data, roles induced by the model mostly corresponds to roles defined in existing resources by annotators. Our method rivals the most accurate semantic role induction methods on English and German (Titov and Klementiev, 2012a; Lang and Lapata, 2011a). Importantly, no prior knowledge about the languages was incorporated in our feature-rich model, whereas the clustering counterparts relied on language-specific argument signatures. These languages-specific priors were crucial for their success. For example, using English-specific argument signatures for German with the Bayesian model of Titov and Klementiev (2012a) results in a drop of 2

performance from clustering F1 of 80.9% to considerably lower 78.3% (our model yields 81.4%). This confirms the intuition that using richer features helps to capture the syntax-semantics interface in multilingual settings, reducing the need for languagespecific model engineering, as is highly desirable in unsupervised learning. The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2 begins with a definition of the semantic role labeling task and discusses some specifics of the unsupervised setting. In Section 3, we describe our approach, starting with a general motivation and proceeding to technical details of the model (Section 3.3) and the learning procedure (Section 3.4). Section 4 provides both evaluation and analysis. Finally, additional related work is presented in Section 5.

2

Task Definition

The SRL task involves prediction of predicate argument structure, i.e. both identification of arguments and assignment of labels according to their underlying semantic role. For example, in the following sentences: (a) [Agent Mary] opened [P atient the door]. (b) [P atient The door] opened. (c) [P atient The door] was opened [Agent by Mary]. Mary always takes an agent role for the predicate open, and door is always a patient. In this work we focus on the labeling stage of semantic role labeling. Identification, though an important problem, can be tackled with heuristics (Lang and Lapata, 2011a; Grenager and Manning, 2006; de Marneffe et al., 2006), with unsupervised techniques (Abend et al., 2009) or potentially by using a supervised classifier trained on a small amount of data.

3

Approach

At the core of our approach is a statistical model encoding an interdependence between a semantic role structure and its realization in a sentence. In the unsupervised learning setting, sentences, their syntactic representations and argument positions (denoted by x) are observable whereas the associated semantic roles r are latent and need to be induced by the

