David Chen and Ray Mooney. 2011. Learning to interpret natural language navigation instructions from observations. In Proceedings of the Twenty Sixth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence. James Clarke, Dan Goldwasser, Ming-Wei Chang, and Dan Roth. 2010. Driving semantic parsing from world's response. In Proceedings of the 2010 Conference on Natural Language Learning. M. Craven and J. Kumlien. 1999. Constructing biological knowledge bases by extracting information from text sources. In Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology, pages 77­86. AAAI Press. Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, Bill MacCartney, and Christopher D. Manning. 2006. Generating typed dependency parses from phrase structure parses. In Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation, pages 449­454, Genoa, Italy. ELRA. Aria Haghighi and Dan Klein. 2006. Prototype-driven learning for sequence models. In Proceedings of the Forty Fourth Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Raphael Hoffmann, Congle Zhang, Xiao Ling, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Daniel S. Weld. 2011. Knowledgebased weak supervision for information extraction of overlapping relations. In Proceedings of the Forty Ninth Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Minoru Kanehisa. 2002. The kegg database. Silico Simulation of Biological Processes, 247:91­103. Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshinobu Kano, and Junichi Tsujii. 2009. Overview of BioNLP-09 Shared Task on event extraction. In Proceedings of the BioNLP Workshop. Jayant Krishnamurthy and Tom M. Mitchell. 2012. Weakly supervised training of semantic parsers. In EMNLP-12. Percy Liang, Michael Jordan, and Dan Klein. 2011. Learning dependency-based compositional semantics. In Proceedings of the Forty Ninth Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Mike Mintz, Steven Bills, Rion Snow, and Dan Jurafsky. 2009. Distant supervision for relation extraction without labeled data. In Proceedings of the Forty Seventh Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Raymond J. Mooney. 2007. Learning for semantic parsing. In Proceedings of the Eighth International Conference on Computational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Processing, pages 311­324, Mexico City, Mexico. Springer.

J. Pearl. 1988. Probabilistic Reasoning in Intelligent Systems: Networks of Plausible Inference. Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, CA. Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos. 2009. Unsupervised semantic parsing. In Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1­10, Singapore. ACL. Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos. 2010. Unsupervised ontological induction from text. In Proceedings of the Forty Eighth Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 296­305, Uppsala, Sweden. ACL. Hoifung Poon and Lucy Vanderwende. 2010. Joint inference for knowledge extraction from biomedical literature. In Proceedings of Human Language Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Hoifung Poon. 2013. Grounded unsupervised semantic parsing. In Proceedings of the Fifty First Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Chris Quirk, Pallavi Choudhury, Michael Gamon, and Lucy Vanderwende. 2011. Msr-nlp entry in bionlp shared task 2011. In Proc. BioNLP. Chris Quirk, Pallavi Choudhury, Jianfeng Gao, Hisami Suzuki, Kristina Toutanova, Michael Gamon, Wentau Yih, and Lucy Vanderwende. 2012. MSR SPLAT, a language analysis toolkit. In Proceedings of NAACL HLT Demonstration Session. Siva Reddy, Mirella Lapata, and Mark Steedman. 2014. Large-scale semantic parsing without question-answer pairs. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Kevin Reschke, Martin Jankowiak, Mihai Surdeanu, Christopher D Manning, and Daniel Jurafsky. 2014. Event extraction using distant supervision. In Language Resources and Evaluation Conference (LREC). Sebastian Riedel and Andrew McCallum. 2011. Fast and robust joint models for biomedical event extraction. In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Sebastian Riedel, Hong-Woo Chun, Toshihisa Takagi, and Jun'ichi Tsujii. 2009. A markov logic approach to bio-molecular event extraction. In Proc. BioNLP. Sebastian Riedel, Limin Yao, and Andrew McCallum. 2010. Modeling relations and their mentions without labeled text. In Proceedings of the Sixteen European Conference on Machine Learning. Carl F. Schaefer, Kira Anthony, Shiva Krupa, Jeffrey Buchoff, Matthew Day, Timo Hannay, and Kenneth H. Buetow. 2009. PID: The pathway interaction database. Nucleic Acids Research, 37:674­679.

765

