of auxiliary codes, such as m/f (male/female), +/(positive/negative) etc. For example, it tags "happy" and "sad" with "E4.1+" and "E4.1-" respectively, indicating positive and negative sentiment. It also identifies many types of multi-word expressions, such as phrasal verbs, noun phrases, named entities and true non-compositional idioms, and annotates them with single semantic tags since this is highly significant for identifying contextual meaning. Recent applications of the USAS tagger include analysis of literary language (Balossi, 2014), the language of psychopaths (Hancock et al, 2013) and scientific deception (Markowitz and Hancock, 2014). There would be obvious benefits if such a semantic tool could cover a wide range of languages. Efforts have been made to port the existing semantic annotation system to other languages (Finnish and Russian) (Löfberg et al., 2005; Mudraya et al., 2006), so a prototype software framework could be used. However, manually developing semantic lexical resources for new languages from scratch is a time consuming task. In this experiment, we examine the feasibility of rapidly bootstrapping semantic lexical resources for new languages by automatically translating existing English semantic lexicons using bilingual dictionaries. We developed prototype semantic annotation tools for Italian, Chinese and Brazilian Portuguese based on automatically generated semantic lexicons. Our evaluation of the tools shows that it is feasible to rapidly develop prototype semantic tools via the aforementioned automatic method, which can be improved and refined manually to achieve a high performance.

words annotation. In terms of porting tools from one language to another by translating lexicons, Brooke et al. (2009) obtained poor results from a small dictionary in cross-linguistic sentiment analysis.

3 Generating Multilingual Semantic Lexicons by Automatic Mapping
The USAS tagger relies heavily on the semantic dictionary as its knowledge source, so the main task in the development of our prototype semantic annotation tools for new languages was to generate semantic lexicons, both for single word and multiword expressions (MWE), in which words and MWEs can be associated with appropriate semantic tags. For this purpose, our approach involves mapping existing English semantic lexicons into target languages in order to transfer the semantic tags across translation equivalents. The entries of the English semantic lexicons are classified under the USAS semantic annotation scheme (Archer et al., 2004), which consists of 21 major semantic categories that are further divided into 232 subcategories. In order to translate the English semantic lexicons into other languages, we needed a bilingual lexicon for each of the target languages, Italian, Chinese and Portuguese in our particular case. For this purpose, we first used two corpus-based frequency dictionaries compiled for Chinese (Xiao et al., 2009) and Portuguese (Davies and Preto-Bay, 2007), which cover the 5,000 most frequent Chinese and Portuguese words respectively. These dictionaries provided high-quality manually edited word translations. In addition, we used large English-Italian and English-Portuguese bilingual lexicons available from FreeLang site (http://www.freelang.net/dictionary) as well as an English-Chinese bilingual word list available from LDC (Linguistic Data Consortium). Compiled without professional editing, these bilingual word lists contain errors and inaccurate translations, and hence they introduced noise into the mapping process. However, they provided wider lexical coverage of the languages involved and complemented the limited sizes of the high-quality dictionaries used in our experiment. Table 1 lists the bilingual lexical resources employed for translating the English lexicons into each of the three languages involved in our experiment.

2 Related Work
There exist various tools that can semantically annotate multilingual texts, including GATE (Cunningham et al., 2011) and KIM (Popov et al., 2003) which, combined together, provide multilingual semantic annotation functionalities based on ontologies. Freeling (Padró et al., 2012) provides multilingual annotations such as named entity recognition and WordNet sense tagging. Recent developments in this area include Zhang and Rettinger's work (2014) in which they tested a toolkit for Wikipedia-based annotation (wikification) of multilingual texts. However, in the work described here we employ a lexicographically-informed semantic classification scheme and we perform all1269

