4. Let your eyes run rapidly over several lines of print at a time. 5. When you find the sentence that has the information you seek, read the entire sentence. Educators have verified that scanning is an effective strategy in enhancing reading comprehension (Motallebzadeh and Mamdoohi, 2011). There are two important aspects in the scanning strategy: keywords and their corresponding scopes. For biographical fact extraction, triggers can easily act as the keywords used by human during scanning and thus we focus on identifying the scopes of triggers. Given a sentence that contains one or more triggers, we define trigger scope as the shortest fragment that is related to a trigger. Based on our observation, each fact-specific trigger has its own scope and its corresponding facts seldom appear outside of its scope. In the following sentence, if we can identify the scope of graduated, a trigger for education-related facts, we can skip the rest of triggers, we define trigger scopeChesterbrook as the shortest the sentence after 1965 even though fragment that is related to a trigger. Based on Academy is an educational organization. observation, She our [<graduated > each from fact-specific Barnard intrigger 1965] has andits own scope and its corresponding facts seldom soon began teaching English at Chesterbrook Aappear outside of its scope. For example, in the cademy in Pennsylvania.1 following sentence, if we can identify the scope In this paper, we study the effect of triggers of graduated, a trigger for education-related facts, by learning linguistic scopes at the we cantheir skip the rest of the sentence aftersentence 1965 even level and apply this strategy to extract 11educational types of though Chesterbrook Academy is an biographical facts, namely, birth date, death date, organization. birth place, place, residence place, education, Shedeath [<graduated > from Barnard in 1965] and parents, spouse, and other family soon beganchildren, teaching siblings English at Chesterbrook A1 cademy in Pennsylvania. as described in the KBP SF task. In this paper, we study the effect of triggers We design our extraction process following the by learning their linguistic at the sentence scanning steps corresponding toscopes Arnold's scanning level and apply this strategy to biographical fact theory.

4. Within each scope, extract candidate answers which satisfy the entity type constraint in 2. The contributions of our paper are as follows. · We are the first to study the application of trigger scoping in biographical fact extraction. · Our approach does not rely on any external knowledge bases for training or manually created fact-specific rules, and yet dramatically advances state-of-the-art.

2

Approach

In this section, we present the detailed approach of applying trigger scoping to biographical fact extraction. In Section 2.1, we first introduce the annotation methods of constructing the gold-standard dataset for evaluating scope identification. We use the sentence in Figure 1 as our illustrative example.
Paul Francis Conrad and his [twin <brother>, James], were [<born> in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on June 27, 1924], [<sons> of Robert H. Conrad and Florence Lawler Conrad].

2.1 Trigger and and Scope Annotation Figure 1: Trigger scope annotation example. 2.1.1 Basic issues In a text, sentences with triggers of birth, death, 2.1 Trigger and Scope Annotation family, residence and education information are considered for annotation. We will not annotate 2.1.1 Basic issues a sentence if it inherently hints a biographical fact In a text, the sentences containing biographical without support of lexical evidence. factsDuring (e.g., birth, death, family, residence or educathe annotation, triggers are marked by tion) are considered for annotation. We discard a angle brackets: < resident > , < native > , etc. and extraction on 11 biographical facts, namely, birth the scope of the trigger is denoted by square sentence if it expresses a biographical fact without date, date, know birth the place, death place, resi1. Let thedeath computer query and the fact brackets as shown in sentence §. surface cues. dence place, education, parents, spouse, children, type to be extracted. siblings and other family as described in SF. During annotation, triggers are marked by angle 2.1.2 Trigger Tagging our extraction process following the brackets (e.g., <resident>), and the scope bound2. Let We thedesign computer know what form or entity We mined fact-specific trigger lists from existing scanning steps corresponding to Arnold's scanof a trigger are denoted by square brackets type the candidate answer is likely to appear ­ aries patterns, rules and ground truth sentences fromas ning theory. shown Figure 1. person, organization, phrase, time, etc. KBP in 2012 SF corpus. Triggers for each fact are 1. Let the computer know the query and the fact also mined by mapping various knowledge bases, Trigger Tagging 3. Locate all triggers of the given fact type and 2.1.2 to bethe extracted. including Wikipedia Infoboxes, Freebase (Bolrecognize their respective scopes. 2. Let the computer know what form or entity We mined fact-specific trigger lists et from lacker et al., 2008), DBPedia (Auer al., existing 2007) type the candidate answer is likely to appear patterns 1 and YAGO (Suchanek et al., 2007), into the Gi(Chen et al., 2010; Min et al., 2012; Li et al., The scope is marked with [] and the trigger is marked with 2 and Wikipedia articles via distant ­ person, organization, phrase, time, etc. gaword corpus <>. 2012) and ground truth sentences from KBP 2012 3. Locate all the triggers of the given fact and supervision (Mintz et al., 2009). In our experirecognize their respective scopes. 1204 ment, we use 343 triggers in total and for each fact 4. Within each scope, extract candidate answers there are about 38 triggers in average. satisfying the entity type constraint in 2. We examine all the sentences containing any possible triggers. The presence of a word in The contributions of our paper are as follows. one trigger list does not necessarily mean that the · We are the first to study the application of

