Method XKCD All Letter Method Frequency Method Poetry

Participants 16 15 15 16

Recalls 12 9 10 13

Correct Recalls 58.3% 33.3% 40.0% 61.5%

generated, R = as recalled by user):
(S) Still looking for ruben sierra could be in central michigan (R) I am still looking for ruben sierra in central michigan (S) That we were required to go to college more than action movies (R) We are required to go to college more than action movies (S) No dressing allowed under canon law in the youth group (R) No dresses allowed under canon law for youth groups

Table 4: Memorability of passwords generated by our methods. "Recalls" indicates how many participants returned to type their memorized English sequences, and "Correct Recalls" tells how many sequences were accurately remembered.
Method Name XKCD All Letter Method Frequency Method Poetry User preference 5% 39% 37% 19%

Table 5: User preferences among passwords generated by our methods.

we let them select from the 10-best passwords according to the LM score for a given 60-bit code. Note that this flexibility is not available for XKCD, which produces only one password per code. 62 users participated in this experiment, 44 returned to recall the password, and 22 successfully recalled the complete password. Table 4 shows that the Poetry and XKCD methods yield passwords that are easiest to remember. In the second experiment, we present a separate set of users with passwords from each of the four methods. We ask which they would prefer to use, without requiring any memorization. Table 5 shows that users prefer sentences over poetry, and poetry over XKCD.

Users remember the gist of a sentence very well, but have trouble reproducing the exact wording. Post-experiment interview reveal this to be partly an effect of overconfidence. Users put little mental work into memorizing sentences, beyond choosing among the 10-best alternatives presented to them. By contrast, they put much more work into memorizing an XKCD phrase, actively building a mental image or story to connect the four otherwise unrelated words.

5

Future Directions

4

Analysis

Table 4 shows that the Poetry and XKCD methods yield passwords that are easiest to memorize. Complete sentences generated by the All Letter and Frequency Methods are harder to memorize. At the same time Table 5 shows that people like the sentences better than XKCD, so it seems that they overestimate their ability to memorize a sentence of 1012 words. Here are typical mistakes (S = system1574

Actually, we can often automatically determine that a user-recalled sequence is wrong. For example, when we go to reconstruct the 60-bit input string from a user-recalled sequence, we may find that we get a 62-bit string instead. We can then automatically prod the user into trying again, but we find that this is not effective in practice. An intriguing direction is to do automatic error-correction, i.e., take the user-recalled sequence and find the closest match among the 260 English sequences producible by the method. Of course, it is a challenge to do this with 1-best outputs of an MT system that uses heuristic beam search, and we must also ensure that security is maintained. We may also investigate new ways to re-rank nbest lists. Language model scoring is a good start, but we may prefer vivid, concrete, or other types of words, or we may use text data associated with the user (papers, emails) for secure yet personalized password generation.

