and evaluations should therefore be considered separately. This is of utter importance as it points to an imbalance of computational effort in the field. 6.2 Implications for Computer Philology In biology the establishment of genealogical relations is in its own rights a primary goal, reconstruction of ancestral sequences being rather secondary. On the contrary in philology, compiling an edition is not only historically preceeding stemmatology, but can be considered the main target of dealing with manuscript corpora. Stemma construction is rather a secondary goal.2 Despite this imbalance between the fields, the technological emphasis is on genealogical trees in both. This may be seen as a computer philological co-loan from bio-informatics. On the other hand it might correspond to a more B´ edierian edition practise, where stemmatology is emphasized because it can point to the most important manuscript, which is however implicit and unlikely. Another reason for a benefit resulting from a shifting focus onto automatic archetype reconstruction is the problem of having two vorlages for one copy called contamination. Whilst especially excessive contamination is a bad problem for stemmatology, (Maas, 1960), considering automatic archetype reconstruction, on a word level it doesn't increase diversity and should therefore be a less severe problem. For both traditions, the produced archetype was reasonably accurate. The automatisation of this process could thus accelerate the production of editions, making them most dependent on the indispensable digitization of corpora. 6.3 Implications for Bio-Informatics In biology, reconstructive algorithms such as the one by Yang (2007) have been developed alongside biological benchmark data sets enumerated by Linder et al. (2010). However, in stemmatology, the probability to have a manuscript and its copy in the corpus at the same time is disproportionately higher than in the biological case making archetype production more transparent here. The resulting algorithmic conclusions from philology could therefore enrich the field of ancestral sequence reconstruction.
For more details, consider for instance Pasquali (1988), Timpanaro (2005), and Reynolds & Wilson (2013).
2

7

Conclusion and Outlook

We have presented an automated reconstruction of an archetypical text through philological rules and phylogenetic software. Additionally, we invented an evaluation for the produced archetypes, where we found the reconstruction to produce results considerably above chance level. The inversion of the process is implicit. From a (manually or automatically) constructed archetype, all possible corresponding stemmas on the given set of manuscript digitizations can be computed and evaluated, which would be a new approach to stemmatology. Both tasks could thus profit from each other provided they are understood as separate and developed each in its own right. Many issues remain unaddressed. The phenomena encountered in manuscripts are much more varied than word substitutions as modelled in this paper; an enumeration of some of the phenomena will corroborate this: word deletions, word separation errors, whole passages missing, text on the margins, unreadable or destructed text, crossing out of sections, oral variation, contamination. Trovato (2009) claims that manuscript loss of far more than 90% is realistic. In linguistics, historical-comparative studies have engaged in using bio-informatic software for instance in connection with the recontruction of language family trees. For automatic emendation these studies as well as the reconstruction of unattested word forms are a valuable source. Stemmatology itself offers ever new algorithms, artificial traditions and tools for electronic editing. In the light of these manifold possibilities for elaboration and cooperation, the current study presents but one entry point into automatic archetype reconstruction.

Acknowledgments
We greatfully acknowledge the financial support of the Goethe University, the Federal State of Hesse and the Federal Ministry of Education and Research BMBF. We express our gratitude to our colleagues of the Texttechnology Lab for valuable comments, help and advice.

1213

