placeholder names. These tendencies can be captured with a multinomial distribution over address terms, conditioned on the nature of the relationship. However, the linguistic signal is not the only indicator of formality: network structural properties can also come into play. For example, if two individuals share a mutual friend, with which both are on informal terms, then they too are more likely to have an informal relationship. With a log-linear prior distribution over network structures, it is possible to incorporate such triadic features, which relate to structural balance and status theory. Given a dataset of unlabeled network structures and linguistic content, inference in this model simultaneously induces three quantities of interest: · a clustering of network edges into types; · a probabilistic model of the address terms that are used across each edge type, thus revealing the social meaning of these address terms; · weights for triadic features of signed networks, which can then be compared with the predictions of existing social theories. Such inferences can be viewed as a form of sociolinguistic structure induction, permitting social meanings to be drawn from linguistic data. In addition to the model and the associated inference procedure, we also present an approach for inducing a lexicon of address terms, and for tagging them in dialogues. We apply this procedure to a dataset of movie scripts (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Lee, 2011). Quantitative evaluation against human ratings shows that the induced clusters of address terms correspond to intuitive perceptions of formality, and that the network structural features improve predictive likelihood over a purely text-based model. Qualitative evaluation shows that the model makes reasonable predictions of the level of formality of social network ties in well-known movies. We first describe our model for linking network structure and linguistic content in general terms, as it can be used for many types of linguistic content and edge labels. Next we describe a procedure which semi-automatically induces a lexicon of address terms, and then automatically labels them in text. We then describe the application of this proce1617

dure to a dataset of movie dialogues, including quantitative and qualitative evaluations.

2

Joint model of signed social networks and textual content

We now present a probabilistic model for linking network structure with content exchanged over the network. In this section, the model is presented in general terms, so that it can be applied to any type of event counts, with any form of discrete edge labels. The application of the model to forms of address is described in Sections 4 and 5. We observe a dataset of undirected graphs G(t) = {i, j }, with a total ordering on nodes such that i < j in all edges. For each edge i, j , we observe directed content vectors xij and xij , which may represent counts of words or other discrete events, such as up-votes and down-votes for comments in a forum thread. We hypothesize a latent edge label yij  Y , so that xij and xij are conditioned on yij . In this paper we focus on binary labels (e.g., Y = {+, -}), but the approach generalizes to larger finite discrete sets, such as directed binary labels (e.g., Y = {++, +-, -+, --}) and comparative status labels (e.g., Y = {<, >, }). We model the likelihood of the observations conditioned on the edge labels as multinomial, xij | yij Multinomial(  yij ) xij | yij Multinomial(  yij ). (1) (2)

Parameter tying can be employed to handle special cases. For example, if the edge labels are undi rected, then we add the constraint   y =  y , y . If the edge labels reflect relative status, then we  would instead add the constraints (  < =  > ),     ( > =  < ), and (  =   ). The distribution over edge labelings P (y ) is modeled in a log-linear framework, with features that can consider network structure and signed triads: P (y ; G,  ,  ) = 1 Z ( ,  ; G) × exp
i,j G

 f (yij , i, j, G) yij ,yjk ,yik , (3)
i,j,k T (G)

× exp

