ward the insult event. And, the nested source is w, imam. Ex(1) When the Imam issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet ... DS: issued the fatwa nested-source: w, imam attitude: issued the fatwa against attitude-type: sentiment-negative target: Salman...insult...Prophet eTarget : Rushdie, insulting We find two eTargets in the target-span: "Rushdie" himself plus his act of "insulting." In the same sentence, there is another negative attitude, insulting, as shown in Ex(2). The source is Salman Rushdie and the target is the Prophet. Note that the span covering this event is the target span of the attitude in Ex(1) -- the private state of Ex(2) is nested in the private state of Ex(1). Thus, the complete interpretation of the negative attitude in Ex(2) is: according to the writer, the Imam is negative toward Rushdie insulting the Prophet. The nested source is w, Imam, Rushdie. Ex(2) When the Imam issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet ... DS: insulting nested-source: w, imam, rushdie attitude: insulting attitude-type: sentiment-negative target: the Prophet eTarget : Prophet We add an eTarget for the Prophet, anchored to the head "Prophet." Interestingly, "Prophet" is an eTarget for w,Iman,Rushdie (i.e., Rushdie is negative toward the Prophet), but not for w,Imam (i.e., the Imam is not negative toward the Prophet). In the following example, the target span is short. Ex(3) He is therefore planning to trigger wars ... DS: (entire sentence) nested-source: w 1325

attitude: planning to trigger wars attitude-type: sentiment-negative target: He eTarget : He eTarget : planning, trigger, wars "He" is George W. Bush; this article appeared in the early 2000s. The writer is negative toward Bush because (the writer claims) he is planning to trigger wars. As shown in the example, the MPQA 2.0 target span is only "He," for which we do create an eTarget. But there are three additional eTargets, which are not included in the target span. The writer is negative toward Bush planning to trigger wars; we make sense of this by inferring that the writer is negative toward the idea of triggering wars and thus toward war itself. Ex(4) Three leading international organisations warned jointly Thursday that the international fight against terrorism should not be a pretext for the violation of human rights. DS: warned nested-source: w, threeint attitude: warned attitude-type: sentiment-negative target: the international ... rights eTarget :be, pretext, violation ESE: pretext nested-source: w, threeint polarity: negative eTarget : pretext The viewpoints in the article of Ex(4) are not against fighting terrorism (another sentence begins "While we recognize that the threat of terrorism requires specific measures ...") but against doing so in certain ways. Here the three organizations are against the fight being used as a pretext for civil rights violations. Thus, "be", "pretext", and "violation" are eTargets, but "fight" and "terrorism" are not. We mark "be" as an eTarget because the source is negative toward the state of the fight being a pretext for the violation of human rights. This makes sense with the source also being negative toward "pretext" and "violation." The fact that "pre-

