Praveen Bysani. 2010. Detecting novelty in the context of progressive summarization. In Proceedings of the NAACL Student Research Workshop. Michael Collins. 2002. Discriminative training methods for hidden markov models: Theory and experiments with perceptron algorithms. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Jean-Yves Delort and Enrique Alfonseca. 2012. Dualsum: a topic-model based approach for update summarization. In Proceedings of EACL. Seeger Fisher and Brian Roark. 2008. Query-focused supervised sentence ranking for update summaries. In Proceeding of TAC. Dan Gillick, Benoit Favre, and Dilek Hakkani-tur. 2008. The ICSI summarization system at tac 2008. In Proceedings of TAC. Dan Gillick, Benoit Favre, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Berndt Bohnet, Yang Liu, and Shasha Xie. 2009. The ICSI/UTD summarization system at tac 2009. In Proceedings of TAC. Wenjie Li, Furu Wei, Qin Lu, and Yanxiang He. 2008. PNR2: Ranking sentences with positive and negative reinforcement for query-oriented update summarization. In Proceedings of Coling. Jiwei Li, Sujian Li, Xun Wang, Ye Tian, and Baobao Chang. 2012. Update summarization using a multilevel hierarchical dirichlet process model. In Proceedings of COLING. Chen Li, Fei Liu, Fuliang Weng, and Yang Liu. 2013a. Document summarization via guided sentence compression. In Proceedings of the EMNLP. Chen Li, Xian Qian, and Yang Liu. 2013b. Using supervised bigram-based ilp for extractive summarization. In Proceedings of ACL. Chen Li, Yang Liu, Fei Liu, Lin Zhao, and Fuliang Weng. 2014. Improving multi-documents summarization by sentence compression based on expanded constituent parse trees. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. Rouge: a package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Proceedings of ACL. Chong Long, Minlie Huang, and Xiaoyan Zhu. 2010. Summarizing multidocuments by information distance. In Proceedings of TAC. Andre F. T. Martins and Noah A. Smith. 2009. Summarization with a joint model for sentence extraction and compression. In Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Integer Linear Programming for Natural Language Processing. Jun-Ping Ng, Praveen Bysani, Ziheng Lin, Min-Yen Kan, and Chew-Lim Tan. 2012. Exploiting categoryspecific information for multi-document summarization. In Proceedings of COLING.

Xiaojun Wan, Houping Jia, Shanshan Huang, and Jianguo Xiao. 2011. Summarizing the differences in multilingual news. In Proceedings of SIGIR. Xiaojun Wan. 2012. Update summarization based on coranking with constraints. In Proceedings of COLING. Kristian Woodsend and Mirella Lapata. 2012. Multiple aspect summarization using integer linear programming. In Proceedings of EMNLP-CoNLL.

1322

