for a lemma may contain a note stating its relationship with another lemma. Second, Wiktionary includes a separate thesaurus, Wikisaurus, which specifies (1) a lemma and its gloss and (2) all other lemmas sharing a relation with that sense. However, these Wiktionary relations cannot directly be used to enrich WordNet for two reasons. First, Wiktionary entries are defined in terms of lemmas, rather than senses. As a result, directly ontologizing the resource or integrating its semantic relations requires disambiguating each relation's lemmas, which is not always possible due to the limited context. Second, semantic relations in Wiktionary are infrequent, with 19.8% of all words having any specified relation and only 0.3% having a hypernym relation. As a result of this sparsity, structure alignment-based approaches for extending WordNet cannot be directly applied.

ing the head word and all other words joined to it by a conjunction. Second, additional candidates are collected from the first hyperlinked term or phrase in the gloss, which is similar to the approach of Navigli and Velardi (2010) for hypernym extraction in Wikipedia. Candidates are then filtered to ensure that (1) they have the same part of speech as the definition's term and (2) they are defined in WordNet, which is necessary for the attachment. 3.2 Structural and Lexical Attachment Three types of structural or lexical heuristics were used to attach OOV lemmas when the appropriate data was available. First, Wikisaurus or Wiktionary synonym relations create sets of mutually-synonymous lemmas, which may contain OOV lemmas. The common hypernym of these lemmas is estimated by computing the most frequent hypernym synset for all the senses of the set's lemmas that are in WordNet. Any OOV lemma also in the set is then attached to this estimated hypernym. Second, some Wiktionary glosses follow regular patterns that identify a particular meaning. Two pattern heuristics were used: (1) a group of Person patterns and (2) a Genus pattern. The Person patterns match glosses that start with phrases such as "somebody who." Senses with such glosses have their set of candidate attachments restricted to descendants of the human sense of the noun person; the sense is then attached to a descendant using the gloss ranking procedure for lexical attachment (described below). The Genus pattern matches glosses that start with "Any member of the" and later contain a proper noun matching a scientific genus in WordNet; in such cases the OOV lemma is attached to the same hypernym as the synsets with a holonymy relation to the genus's synset. Third, an Antonymy heuristic is used to identify OOV lemmas with an antonym relation to lemmas already in WordNet. OOV lemmas are tested for having a prefix indicating it could be an antonym, e.g., "anti." If the lemma formed from the remainder after prefix is in WordNet, then the OOV lemma is treated as its antonym and attached to the antonym's hypernym. Furthermore, the two synsets are marked as antonyms in C ROWN. 3.3 Gloss-based Attachment Each OOV lemma is associated with one or more Wiktionary senses, s1...n , where each sense si is associated with a set of lemmas li , one of whose senses may be its hypernym. The gloss-based attachment method analyzes each sense separately, first generating a set of candidate hypernym synsets and then ranking each synset according to its gloss similarity, both defined next. Ultimately the OOV lemma is attached to the highest-scoring synset across all of its Wiktionary senses. This procedure is intended to maximize precision by attaching only the

3

Extending WordNet

C ROWN is created by identifying lemmas that are out of vocabulary (OOV) in WordNet but have one or more associated glosses in Wiktionary. A new synset is created for that lemma and a hypernym relation is added to the appropriate WordNet synset. The C ROWN attachment process rates hypernym candidates using two methods. First, where possible, we exploit structural or morphological information to identify highly-probable candidates. Second, following previous work on resource alignment showing that lexical overlap accurately measures gloss semantic similarity (Meyer and Gurevych, 2011; Navigli and Ponzetto, 2012), candidates are found by measuring the similarity of the Wiktionary gloss with the glosses of synsets found by a constrained search of the WordNet graph. We note that attaching OOV lemmas by first aligning WordNet and Wiktionary is not possible due to relation sparsity within Wiktionary, where most OOV words would not be connected to the aligned network. Following, we first describe the Wiktionary preprocessing steps and then detail both OOV attachment methods. 3.1 Preprocessing Wiktionary was parsed using JWKTL (Zesch et al., 2008) to extract the text associated with each Wiktionary definition and remove Wiktionary markup. The extracted texts were then partitioned into two sets: (1) those expressing a lexicalization, e.g., "1337" is an alternative spelling of "elite" and (2) those indicating a definition. Novel lexicalizations that are not already handled by the WordNet morphological analyzer (Morphy) were added to the lexicalization exception lists in C ROWN. Definitions are processed using two methods to identify a set of candidate lemmas whose senses might be identical or near to the appropriate hypernym synset. First, candidates are obtained by parsing the gloss with Stanford CoreNLP (Manning et al., 2014) and extract-

1460

