Here, we test whether prosodic boundaries could directly help symbolic word segmentation by providing some word boundaries 'for free', as this was already shown to be true in the case of signal-based term discovery systems (Ludusan et al., 2014). Being a feasibility study, we will use gold prosodic boundaries in order to quantify what is the maximum gain we can expect using this type of information. In addition to that, we test whether prosodic boundaries automatically derived from the speech signal (Ludusan and Dupoux, 2014) could also provide a performance gain. As this study relies on the existence of prosodic information (either gold, or derived from speech), we did not use the standard corpora used in these studies (the Bernstein-Ratner corpus), but introduced three new corpora, two in English and one in Japanese. The paper is structured as follows: In the next sections we introduce the systems employed in this study - the prosodic boundary detection system in section 2 and the word segmentation procedure in section 3. Next, we present the datasets used in the experiments, with the results obtained being illustrated in section 5. The paper will conclude with a general discussion and some final remarks.

2

Prosodic annotation

There are numerous studies in the speech processing literature focusing on the detection of prosodic boundaries (e.g. Wightman and Ostendorf (1991), Ananthakrishnan and Narayanan (2008), Huang et al. (2008), Jeon and Liu (2009), just to name a few). While the approaches taken vary between these studies, they tend to use either supervised learning, thus needing large, prosodically annotated corpora, or higher level information (syntactic, lexical, etc) which would also require further annotations. Since unsupervised word segmentation is a process that requires low resources (only symbolic transcription), we have decided to use for the automatic detection of prosodic boundaries a previously proposed method which employs only acoustic cues that can be extracted from the speech signal (Ludusan and Dupoux, 2014). The algorithm takes into consideration four acoustic cues which had been shown, in the language acquisition literature, to be used by young in-

fants for the recognition of prosodic boundaries. The cues correspond to the following phenomena that occur next to prosodic breaks: silent pauses, final lengthening, initial strengthening and F0 reset. The acoustic cues were extracted at the syllable level and they include: the duration of the pause following the syllable (pause cue), the syllable nucleus duration (nucleus cue), the distance between the nucleus onset of the current syllable and that of the following one (onset cue) and the difference between the F0 end value of the current syllable and the F0 beginning value of the following syllable (F0 reset cue). The nucleus and onset cues are computed for all the syllables, the later being a combination of the nucleus cue, pause cue and the onset of the following syllable, which is the domain of the initial strengthening phenomenon. The pause cue is set to 0 for syllables not followed by a silence pause, while F0 reset is only computed for syllables which are at a local minimum for F0, otherwise it is set to 0. Then, for each individual cue function except pause, we considered only the values which were local maxima, the other values being set to 0. Once a numerical value for each of the cues is obtained, they are standardized between 0 and 1 and combined in a detector function, by summing them up. The local maxima of the detector function are then obtained and the syllables corresponding to the maxima will be considered as prosodic boundary candidates. Next, a thresholding of these values is applied and all the right-hand boundaries of the syllables greater or equal to this threshold are marked as prosodic boundaries. This operation is followed by a second step in which prosodic boundaries are marked based on a different rule, rule that we would call conjunction of cues. This rule was inspired by the results of several studies in the infant literature (Seidl, 2007; Wellmann et al., 2012) showing that most prosodic boundaries tend to be marked by more than one acoustic cue. Taking these findings into account, we could also mark as prosodic boundaries all syllables which are signalled by at least two different cues, regardless of the value of these cues. Thus, by employing the conjunction of cues we can give a higher weight to a group of cues which, by appearing together, mark more reliably the presence of a boundary, in the hope that it would increase recall without decreasing too much the precision.

954

