Enhancing Sumerian Lemmatization by Unsupervised Named-Entity Recognition
Yudong Liu, Clinton Burkhart, James Hearne and Liang Luo Computer Science Department Western Washington University Bellingham, Washington 98226
{yudong.liu@-burkhac@students.-james.hearne@-luol@students.}wwu.edu

Abstract
Lemmatization for the Sumerian language, compared to the modern languages, is much more challenging due to that it is a long dead language, highly skilled language experts are extremely scarce and more and more Sumerian texts are coming out. This paper describes how our unsupervised Sumerian named-entity recognition (NER) system helps to improve the lemmatization of the Cuneiform Digital Library Initiative (CDLI), a specialist database of cuneiform texts, from the Ur III period. Experiments show that a promising improvement in personal name annotation in such texts and a substantial reduction in expert annotation effort can be achieved by leveraging our system with minimal seed annotation.

1

Introduction

Because the Sumerian cuneiform writing system is historically the earliest, Sumerian culture is the earliest recorded civilization. The large number of clay tablets that have been recovered from Mesopotamia reveal "an almost obsessive concern for the preservation of daily events of the time: the digging of ditches, the care of livestock, the storage of grain, and so on. Their survival allows insight into the lives of the city dwellers of remote antiquity" (Garfinkle, 2012). Today, most cuneiform texts are held in public institutions, but the texts are widely separated both from each other and often from scholars by great distances and expensive journeys. Current projects like the Digital Library Initiative (CDLI, 2014) and the Database of Neo-Sumerian Texts (BDTNS, 2014) aim to provide scholars immediate access to virtual collections of tens of thousands of texts. 1446

The Ur III period (2112-2004 BCE) is particularly abundant in surviving texts. Because this era was the specialty of our principle informant, an Assyriologist at our home university, we focus on the tablets that are from this era. The vast majority of these tablets record financial transactions, such as records of cattle deliveries, receipt of metals, repayment of loans, and so forth. Figure 1 shows a tablet from the CDLI repository. For expository purposes, we arranged the original cuneiform drawings on the left (which are not input to our computations), with its transliteration (a oneto-one transcription of signs in a cuneiform text to computer readable text) in the middle, and the modern English translation on the right. The original CDLI data includes transliterations in ASCII format and inline lemmatization markup. More detail about CDLI data will be introduced in Section 2. As we can see in Figure 1, in addition to the provider and recipient of transference, tablets consistently enumerate lists of witnesses ("sealed by"). This fact makes the tablet an invaluable resource for the social history of the time since they record, implicitly, on each tablet, lists of persons who knew one another and enjoyed professional relations (Widell, 2008). The recovery of personal names on the tablets suggests the possibility of reconstructing social networks of actors in the mercantile class and also, given the overlap, their social network connections to royalty. Motivated by this perspective, we built an unsupervised Sumerian named-entity recognition (NER) system, also to accommodate the facts of 1) Sumerian is a dead language; 2) the corpus is of a size too large for even a community of scholars to master; 3) the tablets come in many cases damaged by time and

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1446­1451, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

