Clustering Sentences with Density Peaks for Multi-document Summarization
Yang Zhang Shenzhen Graduate School Peking University, China ecezhangy@sz.pku.edu.cn Yi Liu IMSL, PKU-HKUST Shenzhen Hong Kong Institution, China yi.liu@imsl.org.cn Abstract
Multi-document Summarization (MDS) is of great value to many real world applications. Many scoring models are proposed to select appropriate sentences from documents to form the summary, in which the clustering-based methods are popular. In this work, we propose a unified sentence scoring model which measures representativeness and diversity at the same time. Experimental results on DUC04 demonstrate that our MDS method outperforms the DUC04 best method and the existing clustering-based methods, and it yields close results compared to the state-of-the-art generic MDS methods. Advantages of the proposed MDS method are two-fold: (1) The density peaks clustering algorithm is firstly adopted, which is effective and fast. (2) No external resources such as Wordnet and Wikipedia or complex language parsing algorithms is used, making reproduction and deployment very easy in real environment.

Yunqing Xia Dept. of Comp. Sci. and Tech. Tsinghua University, China yqxia@tsinghua.edu.cn Wenmin Wang Shenzhen Graduate School Peking University, China wangwm@ece.pku.edu.cn
diversity, conciseness. Many scoring models are proposed to select appropriate sentences from documents to form the summary, in which the clustering-based methods are popular. Some researchers address the sentence scoring task in an isolation manner(Radev et al., 2004; Wang et al., 2008; Wan and Yang, 2008) (i.e., clustering and ranking are two independent steps). Others handle the sentence ranking task in a mutuality manner(Cai and Li, 2013; Cai et al., 2010; Wang et al., 2011) (i.e., clustering improves ranking and vice versa). Two drawbacks of the existing clustering-based methods are worth noting. First, extra algorithms are required to determine the number of clusters beforehand. Second, models are required to rank or score sentences within and across the clusters after clustering. Our proposed MDS method is inspired by the recent work on density peaks clustering (DPC) algorithm published on Science (Rodriguez and Laio, 2014). The underlying assumption is that cluster centers are characterized by a higher density than their neighbors and by a relatively large distance from points with higher densities. In this paper, we adapt the density peaks clustering algorithm(Rodriguez and Laio, 2014) to simultaneously cluster sentences and rank them in the mutuality manner. Thanks to the density peaks clustering algorithm, we do not need to set the number of clusters and do not need a post-processing module to reduce redundancy. From the view of summarization task, DPC is superior to other clustering methods because it can not only find the best cluster centers, but also do rank all data points, including

1

Introduction

Document summarization is the process of generating a generic or topic-focused summary by reducing documents in size while retaining the main characteristics of original documents(Wang et al., 2011). The summary may be formed in a variety of different ways, which are generally categorized as abstractive and extractive(Shen et al., 2007). In this paper, we address the problem of generic multidocument summarization (MDS). An effective summarization method should properly consider the following three important issues: representativeness, 1262

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1262­1267, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

