features to generalize across the different lexicons of the datasets. As we discussed previously, the four datasets represent different forms of persuasiveness. In this respect, the results of the cross-dataset experiments can also be interpreted as a measure of the degree of compatibility among these kinds of persuasiveness. In Table 7, we present the results of the crossdataset prediction experiments. For each training and test set pair, we report the accuracy of the best models, one for each feature set, based on crossvalidation on the training set. As can be observed from the table, the figures are generally low and various domain adaptation techniques could be employed to improve the results. However, the objective of this evaluation is not to train an optimized cross-domain classifier, but to assess the potential of the feature sets to model different kinds of persuasiveness. As expected, n-gram features show poor performance due to the lexical and stylistic differences among the datasets. In many cases, the phonetic models outperform the n-gram models, and in several cases the combination of the two feature sets deteriorates the performance of the phonetic features alone. These findings support our hypothesis that phonetic features, due to their generality, have better correlation with different forms of persuasiveness than lexical features. The experiments involving the CORPS dataset, both for training and testing, do not share this behavior. Indeed, when CORPS is used as a training or test dataset, the performance of the models is quite low (very close to or worse than the baseline in many cases) independently from the feature sets. These results suggest that the notion of persuasiveness encoded in this dataset is remarkably different from the others, as previously discussed in the data analysis in Section 5. As seen in the within dataset experiments (see Table 5), CORPS is the only dataset in which the combination of lexical and phonetic features do not improve the classification accuracy. This explains the inability of the phonetic features to improve the accuracy in cross-dataset experiments when this dataset is employed.

homogeneity and plosives ­ on various forms of persuasiveness including memorability of slogans and movie quotes, re-tweet counts of tweets, and effectiveness of political speeches. We conducted our analysis and experiments on four datasets comprising pairs of a persuasive sentence and a nonpersuasive counterpart. Our data analysis shows that persuasive sentences are generally euphonic. This finding is confirmed by the prediction experiments, in which we observed that phonetic features consistently help in the detection of persuasiveness. When combined with lexical features, they help improving classification performance on three of the four datasets that we considered. The key role played by phonetic features is further underlined by the cross-dataset experiments, in which we observed that phonetic features alone generally outperform the lexical features. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first systematic analysis of the impact of phonetic features on several types of persuasiveness. Our results should encourage researchers dealing with different aspects of persuasiveness to consider the inclusion of phonetic attributes in their models. As future work, we will investigate the impact of other phonetic devices such as assonance, consonance and rhythm on persuasiveness. It would also be interesting to focus on the connection between sound symbolism and persuasiveness, and investigate how the context or domain of persuasive statements interacts with the sounds in those statements. We would like to conclude this paper with the most favorite and retweeted tweet of @NAACL2015 (the Twitter account of the conference whose proceedings comprise this paper), which is a good example of the positive effect of euphony in persuasiveness:
The deadline for @NAACL2015 paper submissions is approaching: Remember, remember, the 4th of December!

Acknowledgments
This work has been partially supported by the Trento RISE PerTe project.

7

Conclusion

In this paper, we focused on the impact of a set of phonetic features ­ namely rhyme, alliteration, 1491

