Text Parzival Notre Besoin

Lang English French

MS 21 13

Tok 957 1029

Table 1: The artificial traditions. MS = number of manuscripts, Tok = number of tokens, Lang = language

2

Artificial Traditions

An artificial tradition is a fully digitized set of manuscripts which have been produced through manual copying in recent times whilst recording the true copy history/genealogical relationships. Three of these corpora have been published to date, Parzival by (Spencer et al., 2004), Notre Besoin by (Baret et al., 2004), and Heinrichi by (Roos and Heikkil¨ a, 2009). They are provided in a fully word-aligned tabular version by the authors, so that collation must not be performed anymore. We excluded the Heinrichi tradition from computation as Old Finnish data could not be interpreted by us. Table 1 displays the composition of the artificial traditions we used.

3

Method

Contrasting a rule-based and a statistical approach, we automatically reconstruct the archetype text for the two aforementioned traditions. To the best of our knowledge, this paper treats automatic archetype reconstruction in connection with evaluation for the first time and applies suitable bio-informatic programs for the first time. While the transfer of biological software to philology, especially in stemmatics, is done since the 1990ies, (O'Hara, 1996), purely philological automatic reconstructions are a recent development. As input for both reconstruction methods, we use the same tree, generated by bio-informatic software. Corresponding to this tree, we reconstruct the archetype using a) a philological rule-based majority-vote bottom-up algorithm and b) statistical bio-informatic software. 3.1 Philological Reconstruction

structions, which means one stemma can correspond to several possible archetype texts (depending on the decision rule). We implement the majority-vote decision rule as referred to frequently in philological discourse, see for instance (West, 1973). The algorithm simply assigns the most frequent variant of all direct descendents. If more than one variant is most frequent, our reconstruction retains all for later disambiguation either through majority-vote in subsequent recursion steps or for manual disambiguation through the expert if more than one variants end undisambiguated in the reconstructed archetype. Lost text of leaf nodes should be pruned since their texts are more corrupt than the one of their ancestors, thus unnecessarily corrupting the tradition. This pruning roughly parallels the philological practice of recensio, the prior exclusion of uninformative manuscripts. In mathematical terms, let S be a rooted stemmatic tree (directed acyclic) consisting of a set of vertices V , a set of edges E , and one root node v0 ; Each vertex has an indegree of 1, only v0 has no incoming edges. Let each vertex vi be associated with a text Ti  Tall , which is its textual content, |V | = |Tall |. While Tall is the set of all texts that really existed in the tradition, T initially is the set of surviving texts, T  Tall . The texts in Tall are aligned, that is each text consists of a sequence of tokens or reconstructed tokens {Tii , .., Tin } and all Ti have the same length. A recontructed token can be a set of to be disambiguated tokens. For each Tj  Tall \ T , we reconstruct the lost text in the following way: 1. Collect all texts {Tk , .., Tm }, 1  (k, m)  |Tall | - 1; k, m = j associated with the vertices {vk , .., vm } which are direct descendents of vertex vj , which is associated with Tj . If one of the texts in {Tk , .., Tm } is itself not in T , delay the actual reconstruction and start a new reconstruction for the next unreconstructed text until all texts {Tk , .., Tm } are reconstructed 2. Text reconstruction for each token Tji : Tji = majority ({Tki , .., Tmi }); in case |majority ({Tki , .., Tmi })| > 1 assign all variants to Tj (using a separator), if one of {Tki , .., Tmi } does already carry multiple variants, treat each one as one variant

A lost manuscript text can be reconstructed in different ways given a precomputed stemma. The key question is how to resolve variation. Depending on a concrete decision rule for disambiguation of variation among the direct descendents of a lost manuscript node, there are several possible recon1210

