predicable than, say, that of research papers, it nevertheless has some recurring patterns which lend themselves to generalization. The same principle applies to sentiments appearing in product reviews. The authors of reviews do not simply pile up some random facts about the product or their evaluations of it. To the best of their abilities, they try to convince the reader to buy or not to buy a particular product, and, according to Grice's Maxims (Grice, 1975), they do it in the clearest and most effective way possible. Thus, if an author has in general a positive opinion of a product, the probability of a negative sentence appearing in a review is lower than that of a positive sentence, and even if a negative sentence is introduced, it is likely to appear together with a concession or a contrast marker, such as although or but, or be modified by a hedging expression, such as might, only, could be, which mitigate the negative effect on the reader. Thus the author makes us understand that his primary opinion of the product is still positive, and uses the discourse relation of contrast to present an opposite opinion. Likewise, if an objective sentence appears in a review, it is not a random event, but a tool serving some purpose, such as interacting with a reader by asking questions which do not require an answer (Where do I start?) or supporting one's view by showing that you have some expertise necessary to provide a valid opinion. While in this paper we cover only objective sentences that are used to provide background information (the discourse relation of background), it is clear that other reasons for usage of objective sentences are present and capable of being formalized. The facts mentioned above make us consider a product review as a text which has a primary polarity and optionally includes some segments which have an opposite polarity or no polarity at all (objective sentences). Instead of relying on lexical sentiment information, which makes it difficult to distinguish between objective and subjective sentences on one hand (implicit opinions) and between positive and negative opinions on the other (sarcasm, context-dependent polarity), we suggest using a top-down approach: determining the primary polarity of a review based on an external source of information, such as product rating, and then locating segments which do not conform with this polarity (have no polarity or an
1561

opposite polarity) by finding cues that mark a change in a discourse flow. In the next section we describe an experiment which we conducted to confirm that this approach is viable.

4 4.1

Experiment
Data and Task

For the experiments in this study we use Filatova's Amazon product reviews corpus (so called Sarcasm Corpus4), consisting of 817 ironic and regular reviews. We chose to use this corpus because we believed that segments in ironic reviews would be difficult to classify by purely lexical means. Out of these 817 reviews we randomly selected 100 reviews for training and 20 reviews for test data. We did not use the whole dataset because the number of reviews with a particular review score differs greatly (60% of reviews are 5-star, while only 5% are 2-star). To prevent a skew towards positive labels we used equal-size random samples of reviews with all possible scores. Reviews were annotated by one of the authors and an external annotator on a clause level if a sentence contained opinions with opposite polarities, and on a sentence level otherwise. The inter-annotator agreement was measured by using Fleiss' kappa and Krippendorff's alpha, and the results showed that the annotation was highly reliable ( = 0.912,  = 0.913). Overall the training corpus consisted of 843 segments (438 negative, 268 positive and 137 objective), while the test set contained 145 segments (78 negative, 41 positive and 26 objective). While the studies in sentiment analysis usually make distinction between subjective and objective sentences on one hand and between negative, positive and neutral sentences on the other, in this paper we make a twofold distinction, first classifying a segment as objective or subjective, and then, in case of subjective (polar) sentences, further subdividing them into positive and negative. To our mind the classification into positive, negative and neutral sentences, commonly adopted for product reviews, is incorrect, as neutral sentiments rarely, if ever, appear in reviews. What is com4

http://storm.cis.fordham.edu/~filatova/SarcasmCorpus.html (Filatova, 2012).

