theory of human social interaction (Heise, 2007). ACT proposes that peoples' social perceptions, actions, and emotional experiences are governed by a psychological need to minimize deflections between culturally shared fundamental sentiments about social situations and transient impressions resulting from the dynamic behaviours of interactants in those situations. Each event in ACT is modeled as a triplet: actor, behavior, and object. Culturally shared "fundamental" sentiments about each of these elements are measured in three-dimensions: Evaluation, Potency, and Activity (EPA). The core idea of ACT is that each of the entities (actor, behaviour and object) participating in an event has a fundamental affective sentiment (EPA value) that is shared among members of a culture, and the combination of entities in the event generates a transient impression or feeling that might be different from the fundamental sentiment. Transient impressions evolve over time according to empirically measured temporal dynamics. Emotions are functions of the difference between fundamental sentiments and transient impressions. EPA profiles of concepts can be measured with the semantic differential (Osgood, 1957), a survey technique whereby respondents rate affective meanings of concepts on numerical scales with opposing adjectives at each end (e.g., {good, nice}{bad, awful} for E; {weak, little}{strong, big} for P; {calm, passive}{exciting, active} for A). Affect control theorists have compiled databases of a few thousand words along with average EPA ratings obtained from survey participants who are knowledgeable about their culture (Heise, 2010). For example, the culturally shared EPA for "mother" in Ontario, Canada, is [2.74, 2.04, 0.67], which is quite good, quite powerful, and slightly active. The "daughter" EPA is [2.18, -0.01, 1.92], which is quite good, but less powerful and more active than "mother". ACT is advantageous for sentiment analysis applications, especially those that aim to analyze descriptive events or factual content for the following reasons: (1) EPA space is thought to provide a universal representation of individuals' sentiment; (2) the transient feeling accumulates over the course of several events and, hence, it can model larger structures in text; (3) impression formation can be computed towards different entities in the sentence, 1549

giving a more fine-grained description of the sentiments; (4) the EPA values are empirically driven, reflecting a real evaluation of human participants; and (5) the interaction between terms in ACT is compatible with the linguistic principle of a compositional semantic model, which states that the meaning of a sentence is a function of its words (Frege, 1892). Our method uses the impression and emotion formation equations of ACT to predict human sentiments towards events. We decompose each sentence into subject-verb-object and then associate subject with actor, verb with behaviour, and object with object in ACT. We then compute the predicted emotion towards each of actor, behaviour and object using ACT equations. We use a semi-supervised method based on Wordnet-similarities to assign EPA values to words that are not in ACT lexicons. We evaluated the viability of using ACT in sentiment analysis on a news headlines dataset that we collected and annotated. This approach yielded a precision between 71% and 82% on the news headline dataset. These results are significantly higher than those results from a method that was trained using bag-ofwords and Sentiwordnet lexicon. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: the first section presents the related work in emotions elicitation and sentiment analysis fields; the following two sections describe the proposed method, providing details about affect control theory, impression formation equations, and the lexicon induction method; the last section presents the dataset used in this paper, and discusses the results obtained using our proposed methods.

2

Related Work

Emotions have been studied extensively in disciplines like anthropology, psychology, sociology, and more recently in computer science. In recent years, fields like affective computing (AC) (Picard, 2000), human-computer interaction (HCI) (Brave and Nass, 2002), and sentiment analysis (Feldman, 2013) are also contributing to this area of research, by computationally modeling and evaluating existing theories. Most of the proposed methods in SA and AC have used the appraisal theory by representing emotions with discrete labels such as happy, sad, etc. (Ekman, 1992). Only several studies have adopted di-

