Bayesian marginal and joint probabilities to generate the sequences best explaining the tree. A program performing this is PAML, (Yang, 2007).  :B m1 :A  :A/C We converted the already word-aligned traditions into sequences of letters for each manuscript, see Table 2. Each letter encodes the variant the current manuscript carries at the current position. For m5 :A m3 :A m6 :B m2 :C the so-produced pseudo-DNA sequences, the PAML software generates a stemmatic tree using the maximum likelihood (ML) criterion without resolving m4 :D variation at inferred internodes. This ML tree or any other can be used as input to generate ancestral seFigure 1: A simple stemma of a one word tradition, Greek quences at the internodes and the root node using an letters denoting lost (hype)archetype(s). The Roman up- optimization with a) marginal probabilities, for deper case letters refer to the observed variant (manuscripts tails see (Yang et al., 1995) and b) an optimization mi ) or to the reconstructed variant ((hype)archetype(s)) with joint probabilities, for details see (Pupko et al., inferred bottom-up. 2000). Yang (2007) states that the results of a) and b) differ only in borderline cases. Indeed we found, m1 m2 m3 m4 Variants that the respectively produced archetypes were identhis t' it dis A-D tical in our case. is is is is A The ML tree is usually bifurcating, generating a an a A-C many internodes and an extra-corporal root. Altext text text text A though in our context, it challenges performance of AAAA BABA CAAA DACA PseudoDNA automatic reconstruction, bifurcations are not a circumstance necessarily paralleling philology closely, Table 2: Conversion of a word-aligned example tradition (Howe et al., 2012). to a pseudo-DNA.
:A

and compute the majority variant (example: {T2i , T5i } = {this/tis, tis} then majority ({T2i , T5i }) = tis) 3. T = T  Tj ; if T = Tall end else start next reconstruction For an example see Figure 1. 3.2 Bio-informatic Reconstruction In bio-informatics, reconstruction of ancestral genomes has been undertaken. The most famous case is presumably that of the mammoths, (Miller et al., 2008). However, bacterial asexual reproduction is generally more similar to manuscript copying than mammalian sexual reproduction. Therefore and for other methodological reasons, it is more appropriate to transfer bacteriological reconstruction to philology. Bacteriologists sucessfully reconstructed the predecessors of yeast, (Voordeckers et al., 2012). Given a pregenerated tree, they used 1211

4

Evaluation

For each position of the alignment, a produced archetype (PA) is compared to the original archetype present in the benchmark data sets. Whenever the PA has at least one variant at the current position corresponding to the archetype, an agreement score is incremented by one divided through the number of current variants in the PA. This assumes implicitly that manual disambiguation is at random and represents therefore a baseline evaluation. The agreement score is divided by the number of positions in the alignment to give the total precision of the PA text. This evaluation is called whole text evaluation (WTE). It serves as an orientation point towards the overall reliability of the reconstructed text as a whole. A second evaluation concerns the proportion of correctly disambiguated positions of variation. That agreement score is produced in the same way as described above, but only for positions where the corpus had variation. This evaluation is called po-

