Feature Token ±1, ±2 Lemma ±1, ±2 Bigrams and trigrams POS ±1, ±2 Root Relation and Role Named Entity ±1, ±2 In Title Sentence Lengeth Sentence Position TFIDF Imagery & Context Figurativeness & Context Abstractness & Context Dictionaries & Context

Description The word token itself and the tokens in its context. The lemmatized word and the lemmas in its context. All bigrams and trigrams of which the word is a part. The word's and its context's part(s) of speech. Whether the word is the sentence's parse tree's root. The grammatical relations in which the word is involved and its role in those relations, e.g., passive subject of a verb. Named entity type of the word and its context. Whether the word appears in the article's title. The number of words in the sentence. Whether the word appears in the first third of the sentence, the middle third, or the last third. The word's tf-idf score, grouped into 8 bins of increasing size. Imagery rating of the word and average imagery rating of its context (Paivio et al., 1968; van der Veur, 1975). Figurativeness rating of the word and average figurativeness rating of its context (Gamson and Modigliani, 1989; Turney et al., 2011). Abstractness rating of the word and average abstractness rating of its context (Gamson and Modigliani, 1989; Turney et al., 2011). One feature each for whether word or context is a subjective word (Riloff and Wiebe, 2003), a report verb (Recasens et al., 2013), a hedge (Hyland, 2005), a factive verb (Hooper, 1975), an entailment (Berant et al., 2012), an assertive word (Hooper, 1975), a bias word (Recasens et al., 2013), a negative word (Liu et al., 2005), or a positive word (Liu et al., 2005).

Feature Subset(s) Lexical, Theoretical Lexical, Theoretical Lexical, Theoretical Grammatical Grammatical Grammatical Grammatical Document Document Document Document Theoretical, Dictionaries Theoretical, Dictionaries Theoretical, Dictionaries Theoretical, Dictionaries

Table 1: Name and description of all features for each word, as well as the set(s) to which each feature belongs.

word's context. For figurative language, we used Turney et al.'s (Turney et al., 2011) approach of measuring figurativeness based on the absolute difference in the concreteness of two terms that are grammatically related. The figurativeness score for a given word is the average absolute difference between its concreteness and the concreteness of every word with which it is in some grammatical relationship. We also used Turney et al.'s (Turney et al., 2011) approach to rate the individual abstractness of each word and its context. Lastly, subjective words, hedges, entailments, and other terms that perform specific psycholinguistic functions (Recasens et al., 2013) may also be useful in identifying fram1477

ing. For each, we include one feature for the word itself and one feature for the two-word context around the word. The features used here are informed by a combination of theoretical literature on framing, our own pilot studies, and prior work in computational linguistics. However, we have little means of knowing a priori which of these features will be most important or even necessary. Therefore, in the interest of developing the most perspicacious model, we test several feature subsets, as noted in Table 1. Lexical features involve only words that actually occur in the text. Grammatical features use only aspects of grammatical structure. Document features use various ex-

