in a sentence that appears between two explicit opinions, it might correct it as follows: POSITIVE OBJECTIVE POSITIVE -> POSITIVE POSITIVE POSITIVE 4.2.2 Contrast Features The main drawback of the local context classifier is that it can misclassify sentences with the opposite polarity, lumping them together with sentences of the primary polarity. To prevent this, for the contrast classifier we add another set of features ­ discourse cues with a Rhetoric Structure Theory (RST) (Mann and Thompson, 1988) relation of contrast. We consider both explicit and implicit discourse markers of contrast for this set of features: 4.2.2.1 Explicit Contrast Markers Contrast relations are primarily realized by using explicit discourse markers, which, depending on their type, mark the sentence they appear in (in case of although type) or the previous sentence (in case of but type) as contrasting: (10) The Phillips screwdriver on the end of one of the tines is helpful for things like tightening eyeglasses, POSITIVE CONTR but it is slightly offset from the opposing blade and I've nicked or jabbed myself with it more than once while it's in my pocket. NEGATIVE NCONTR (11) Although it has 10 workable buttons which come in handy for some games, POSITIVE CONTR it has some major flaws. NEGATIVE NCONTR The segment with the NCONTR marker usually has the primary polarity of the review, while the segment with a CONTR marker presents a contrasting opinion. 4.2.2.2 Implicit Contrast Relations Contrast relations can also be manifested implicitly through the use of hedges. Hedging is often used when the review's author wants to mention some
1563

negative side of a product they like (or a positive aspect of a product they hate), but does not want to put an unnecessary emphasis on it. Such hedging expressions as the only good/bad point, the only drawback, I would only recommend it... etc are used for this purpose: (12) With all the upgrades that Apple has done with their macbooks, I think I finally feel that it's worth the spending to buy my first mac. NHEDGE My only complain is that it's still a lot more expensive than PC laptops with similar specs. HEDGE 4.2.3 Background Classifier

The background classifier allows us to capture some of the objective sentences that are related to the polar ones using a background RST relation. We identify three types of patterns where background relations are used: 1. Acquirement patterns: people often start reviews with an explanation of how they got the product. 2. Personal background patterns: people often support their evaluation of a product by stating who there are, what they do for a living, what kind of lifestyle they lead etc. 3. Personal experience patterns: again, to support their views the writers prime their readers by describing their experiences or achievements. Unfortunately, background relations, unlike contrast relations, are almost never explicit. They are paratactic and lack discourse cues, so we need to rely on lexical and grammatical features for classification. However, we believe that because background information is usually presented in easy-topredict patterns, it is more feasible and computationally inexpensive to use lexical cues to single out objective sentences than to try to capture infinitely large number of ways sentiments can be expressed. In the following subsections, we describe these patterns in more detail and explain which lexical and grammatical cues can be used to detect them.

