n u (s) u  p n=1  , where 1  n  p is the length of u and p is the maximum length of the subsequences. As   0, a subsequence is constrained to a substring. As   1, u (s) counts the frequency of u in s. We also experiment with different values of  in this paper. The  factor is exponential and penalizes u over long gaps in a string. Due to the above formulation, the frequency of a subsequence u in a single string is also taken into account. The subsequence formulation also allows for the incorporation of a class-based features easily. For instance, each  in u can be mapped to its Consonant/Vowel class:   {C, V }. The subsequence formulation also allows us to map each phonetic symbol (for example, from International Phonetic Alphabet [IPA]) to an intermediary phonetic alphabet also. Unfortunately, the current dataset is not transcribed in IPA to convert it into an intermediary broader format. In this paper, we map each string s into its C, V sequence scv and then compute the subsequence weights.1 A combined subsequence vector (s + scv ) is further normalized by its norm, (s + scv ) , to transform into a unit vector. The common subsequence vector (s1 , s2 ) is composed of all the common subsequences between s1 and s2 . The weight of a common subsequence is u (s1 ) + u (s2 ). Moschitti et al. (2012) list the features of the above weighting scheme. · Longer subsequences receive lower weights. · Characters can be omitted (called gaps). · The exponent of  penalizes recurring subsequences with longer gaps. For a string of length m and subsequence length n, the computational complexity is in the order of O(mn). On a linguistic note, gaps are consistent with the prevalent sound changes such as sound loss, sound gain, and assimilation,2 processes which alter word forms in an ancestral language causing the daughter languages to have different surface forms. The  factor weighs the number of gaps found in a subsequence. For instance, the Sardinian word form for `fish' pissi has the subsequence ps occurring

twice but with different weights: 3 , 4 . Hence, ps's weight is 3 + 4 . On another note, the idea of gap subsequences subsumes the definitions of different n-gram similarities introduced by Kondrak (2005). The combined feature vector, for a word pair, is used to train a SVM classifier. In our experiments, we use the LIBLINEAR package (Fan et al., 2008) to solve the primal problem with L2 -regularization and L2 -loss. The next subsection describes the makeup of the dataset. We use the default SVM parameters since we did not observe any difference in our development experiments. 3.3 Dataset and results In this section, we will present the dataset, HK features, and results of our experiments. Dataset. We used the publicly available3 IndoEuropean dataset (Dyen et al., 1992) for our experiments. The dataset has 16, 520 lexical items for 200 concepts and 84 language varieties. Each word form is assigned to a unique CCN (Cognate Class Number). There are more than 200 identical non-cognate pairs in the dataset. For the first experiment, we extracted all word pairs for a concept and assigned a positive label if the word pair has an identical CCN; a negative label, if the word pair has different CCNs. We extracted a total of 619, 635 word pairs out of which 145, 145 are cognates. The dataset is transcribed in a broad romanized phonetic alphabet. We explored if we could use two other word list databases: ASJP (Brown et al., 2008) and Ringe et al. (2002) for our experiments. Although the ASJP database has word lists for more than half of the world's languages, it has cognacy judgments for few selected languages and is limited to 40 concepts. Moreover, the ASJP database does not have cognacy judgments for Indo-European family. The other dataset of Ringe et al. (2002) has items for 24 Indo-European languages which are transcribed in an orthographic format and not in a uniform phonetic alphabet.4 Moreover, there are a number of missing items for some of the languages. Hence, we did not use Ringe et al.'s dataset in our experiments. In contrast, Dyen's dataset is much larger and transcribed in an uniform format. Now, we proceed to
3 4

V = {a, e, i, o, u, y }, C =  \ V . A sound can assimilate to a neighboring sound. Sanskrit agni > Prakrit aggi `fire'. Compare the Latin form ignis with the Sanskrit form.
2

1

http://www.wordgumbo.com/ie/cmp/iedata.txt http://www.cs.rice.edu/ nakhleh/CPHL/ie-wordlist-07.pdf

1229

