2
2.1

Related Work
Conceptual Framing

Generally speaking, in order to make sense of their interactions, people frame their experiences (Goffman, 1974). Facts "take on their meaning by being embedded in a frame [...] that organizes them and gives them coherence" (Gamson, 1989, p. 157). Frames help people "locate, perceive, identify, and label," i.e., organize and give meaning to, information about experiences in the world. A frame consists of a variety of components, including "keywords, stock phrases, stereotype images, sources of information" (Entman, 1993, p. 52), "metaphors, exemplars, catchphrases, depictions, [...] visual images" (Gamson and Modigliani, 1989, p. 3), and other devices that provide an interpretive lens or "package." Frames define what counts as a problem, diagnose what is causing the problem, make moral judgments about those involved, and suggest remedies for resolving the problem (Entman, 1993). Framing can significantly impact the perception of a variety of political issues. (Schuldt et al., 2011) found that belief in "global warming" was significantly lower than in "climate change," specifically among Republicans. Gamson and Modigliani (1989) show how nuclear power is framed by such phrases as "atoms for peace," "we have created a Frankenstein," and "the war being waged against the environment and our health." Crucially, framing differs from subjectivity, sentiment, bias, and related constructs. Subjectivity detection may not effectively identify well-established, codified frames (e.g., "tax relief" or "racial quotas"). Sentiment analysis focuses on assessing the valence (e.g., positive, neutral, or negative) of an entity's description. Bias involves a clear, often intentional, preference shown in writing for one position or opinion on an issue. In contrast, there does not exist a one-to-one mapping between framing and opinions (Gamson and Modigliani, 1989). For example, in late 2013, the international community was considering what actions should be taken against Syrian president Bashar al-Assad for using chemical weapons against rebelling citizens. Some viewed the situation as a humanitarian crisis and argued for military intervention. Others argued that al-Assad's actions were a threat to regional security, also argu1473

ing for military action. Here, different framings are used to support the same position on an issue. In contrast, framing involves an ensemble of rhetorical elements to create an "interpretive package" (Gamson and Modigliani, 1989) that functions by altering the relative salience or importance of different aspects of an issue (Chong and Druckman, 2007). In the humanitarian crisis framing vs. regional security framing example above, a regional security framing does not negatively valence human suffering; rather, it shifts the emphasis to make other concerns more apparent. Thus, while we can draw on subjectivity, bias, and sentiment detection, identifying framing requires features and techniques that go beyond any one of these related concepts. 2.2 Related Computational Approaches Some computational work explored concepts related to conceptual framing. For example, Choi et al. (2012) identify hedging in discussion of GMOs using an SVM trained on n-grams from annotated cue phrases. Greene and Resnik (2009) showed how examining grammatical construction (i.e., syntax) can reveal implicit sentiment; for example, passive and active voice imply different degrees of agency and causality. Recasens et al. (2013) used edits from Wikipedia intended to enforce a neutral point of view to identify biased sentences and the terms indicative of that bias. Relatively little work has been done on identifying frames per se. Lind and Salo (2002) used co-occurrence frequencies to examine the framing of feminism in news media. Matthes and Kohring (2008) take a mixed methods approach, asking human coders to annotate the occurrence of certain features in a text problem definition, attribution of causation, moral evaluation, etc. then cluster the text using that coding to identify high-level frames. Boydstun et al. (2013) suggest that approaches based on hierarchical topic modeling may be an effective means of identifying both issue-specific and generic frames. Such techniques, while useful from an analytic standpoint, are not as directly relevant here. The work described in this paper does not aim to identify the framing in a text. Rather, it seeks to determine what language is perceived as being most related to framing, especially by lay-persons, as a means of

