composition and multi-task learning. In Proceedings of ACL. David Bamman and Noah A. Smith. 2013. New alignment methods for discriminative book summarization. In arXiv:1305.1319. Laura Banarescu, Claire Bonial, Shu Cai, Madalina Georgescu, Kira Griffitt, Ulf Hermjakob, Kevin Knight, Philipp Koehn, Martha Palmer, and Nathan Schneider. 2013. Abstract meaning representation for sembanking. In Proceedings of Linguistic Annotation Workshop. Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick, Dan Gillick, and Dan Klein. 2011. Jointly learning to extract and compress. In Proceedings of ACL. Shu Cai and Kevin Knight. 2013. Smatch: an evaluation metric for semantic feature structures. In Proceedings of ACL. Giuseppe Carenini and Jackie Chi Kit Cheung. 2008. Extractive vs. NLG-based abstractive summarization of evaluative text: The effect of corpus controversiality. In Proceedings of the Fifth International Natural Language Generation Conference (INLG). Jackie Chi Kit Cheung and Gerald Penn. 2014. Unsupervised sentence enhancement for automatic summarization. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Michael Collins. 2002. Discriminative training methods for hidden Markov models: Theory and experiments with perceptron algorithms. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Hoa Trang Dang and Karolina Owczarzak. 2008. Overview of the TAC 2008 update summarization task. In Proceedings of Text Analysis Conference (TAC). Bonnie Dorr, Nizar Habash, and David Traum. 1998. A thematic hierarchy for efficient generation from lexical-conceptual structure. In David Farwell, Laurie Gerber, and Eduard Hovy, editors, Machine Translation and the Information Soup: Proceedings of the Third Conference of the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas, Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer. John Duchi, Elad Hazan, and Yoram Singer. 2011. Adaptive subgradient methods for online learning and stochastic optimization. Journal of Machine Learning Research. G¨ unes Erkan and Dragomir R. Radev. 2004. LexRank: Graph-based lexical centrality as salience in text summarization. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research. Jeffrey Flanigan, Sam Thomson, Jaime Carbonell, Chris Dyer, and Noah A. Smith. 2014. A discriminative graph-based parser for the abstract meaning representation. In Proceedings of ACL.

Kavita Ganesan, ChengXiang Zhai, and Jiawei Han. 2010. Opinosis: A graph-based approach to abstractive summarization of highly redundant opinions. In Proceedings of COLING. Shima Gerani, Yashar Mehdad, Giuseppe Carenini, Raymond T. Ng, and Bita Nejat. 2014. Abstractive summarization of product reviews using discourse structure. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Dan Gillick and Benoit Favre. 2009. A scalable global model for summarization. In Proceedings of the NAACL Workshop on Integer Linear Programming for Natural Langauge Processing. Kevin Gimpel and Noah A. Smith. 2012. Structured ramp loss minimization for machine translation. In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT. Zhanying He, Chun Chen, Jiajun Bu, Can Wang, Lijun Zhang, Deng Cai, and Xiaofei He. 2012. Document summarization based on data reconstruction. In Proceedings of AAAI. Eduard Hovy, Mitchell Marcus, Martha Palmer, Lance Ramshaw, and Ralph Weischedel. 2006. OntoNotes: The 90% solution. In Proceedings of NAACL. Richard M. Karp. 1972. Reducibility Among Combinatorial Problems. In Complexity of Computer Computations, pages 85­103. Springer US. Robert T. Kasper. 1989. A flexible interface for linking applications to Penman's sentence generator. In Proceedings of the DARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop. Gunhee Kim, Leonid Sigal, and Eric P. Xing. 2014. Joint summarization of large-scale collections of web images and videos for storyline reconstruction. In Proceedings of CVPR. Kevin Knight, Laura Baranescu, Claire Bonial, Madalina Georgescu, Kira Griffitt, Ulf Hermjakob, Daniel Marcu, Martha Palmer, and Nathan Schneider. 2014. Abstract meaning representation (AMR) annotation release 1.0 LDC2014T12. Web Download. Philadelphia: Linguistic Data Consortium. Polina Kuznetsova, Vicente Ordonez, Tamara L. Berg, and Yejin Choi. 2014. TREETALK: Composition and compression of trees for image descriptions. Transactions of ACL. Irene Langkilde and Kevin Knight. 1998. Generation that exploits corpus-based statistical knowledge. In Proceedings of COLING. Chen Li, Yang Liu, Fei Liu, Lin Zhao, and Fuliang Weng. 2014. Improving multi-documents summarization by sentence compression based on expanded constituent parse tree. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Hui Lin and Jeff Bilmes. 2010. Multi-document summarization via budgeted maximization of submodular functions. In Proceedings of NAACL.

1085

