United States financier and philanthropist ( 1855 - 1937 ) B N : LOCATION I N : LOCATION B N : PERSON O B N : PERSON O B N : TIME O B N : TIME O Figure 2: A supersense tagging shown with per-token BIO tags in the style of Ciaramita and Altun (2006). of my high school The white pages allowed me to get in touch with parents ¯ ¯ ~ O B V: SOCIAL ~ I ¯ I I O N : PERSON O O B N : GROUP I B N : COMMUNICATION I O V: COGNITION O friends so that I could track people down one by one ¯ ¯ N : PERSON O O O O V : SOCIAL N : PERSON I B I ¯ I O B o Figure 3: Tagging for part of the lexical semantic analysis depicted in figure 1. Note that for nominal and verbal MWEs, the supersense label is only attached to the first tag of the expression.

Though our focus in this paper is on English, automatic supersense tagging has also been explored in Italian (Picca et al., 2008, 2009; Attardi et al., 2010, 2013; Rossi et al., 2013), Chinese (Qiu et al., 2011), and Arabic (Schneider et al., 2013). 4.2 Model

Like Ciaramita and Altun (2006) and Schneider et al. (2014a), we train a first-order structured perceptron (Collins, 2002) with averaging. This is a standard discriminative modeling setup, involving: a linear scoring function over features of input­output pairs; a Viterbi search to choose the highest-scoring valid output tag sequence given the input; and an online learning algorithm that makes M passes through the training data, searching for the best tagging given the current model and updating the parameters (linear feature weights) where the best tagging doesn't match the gold tagging. With a first-order Markov assumption and tagset Y , the Viterbi search for a sentence x requires O( Y 2  x ) runtime. The dataset used to train and evaluate the model, the tagging scheme, and the features are described below. 4.3 Data

nouns/verbs as well as strong nominal/verbal MWEs. Weak MWEs are not holistically labeled with a supersense (see fn. 5). The 8-way scheme. To encode the lexical segmentation via token-level tags, we use the 8-way scheme from Schneider et al. (2014a) for positional flags. The 8-way scheme extends Ramshaw and Marcus's (1995) BIO chunking tags to also encode (a) a strong/weak distinction for MWEs, and (b) gappy MWEs (there is no formal limit on the number of gaps per MWE or the number of other lexical expressions occurring within each gap, though there is a limit of one level of nesting). The 4 lowercase positional flags indicate that an expression is within a gap, and otherwise have the same interpretation as their uppercase counterparts, which are: · · · · for single-word expressions for the first word of an MWE for a word continuing a strong MWE ~ I for a word weakly linked to its predecessor, forming a weak MWE13
O B ¯ I

The STREUSLE dataset, as described in §3, is annotated for multiword expressions as well as noun and verb supersenses and auxiliary verbs. We use this dataset for training and testing an integrated lexical semantic analyzer. Schneider et al. (2014a) used the CMWE dataset--i.e., the same R EVIEWS sentences, but annotated only for MWEs. A handful of apparent errors in the MWE analyses were fixed in the course of our supersense annotation. 4.4 Tagset

As with the original BIO scheme, a globally wellformed sequence of tags in the 8-tag scheme can be constructed by respecting bigram constraints.14 Adding class labels. The tagset used to annotate the data for our tagger combines 8-way positional flags with supersense class labels. We decorate class labels only on beginners of strong lexical expressions--so this includes O or o on a single-word noun or verb, but always excludes ¯ I and ¯ i.15 Figure 3
Weak MWE links may join together strong MWEs. Among these constraints are: B must always be immediately followed by ¯ I or ~ I (because B marks the beginning of an MWE); and within-gap (lowercase-tagged) tokens must immediately follow a tag other than O and precede a tag other than O or B. 15 Unlike prior work with the plain BIO scheme, we do not include the class in tags continuing a (strong) MWE, though the
14 13

In the STREUSLE dataset, supersense labels apply to strong noun and verb expressions--i.e., singleton 1542

