tent when the Telugu based phrase table was linearly combined with the direct phrase table. Sennrich (2012) gave a method to learn these weights, but in a resource constrained scenario such a method is difficult to apply. This motivated us to try the Multiple Decoding Paths (MDP) feature of Moses. 4.2.3 On using MDP Single pivots: Since log linear combination does not modify the probability space it should lead to definitive increase in translation scores. This claim is validated by the last columns of Tables 1 and 2. For Japanese-Hindi: barring Marathi, the combination of the direct and pivot phrase table leads to significant improvement over the direct phrase tables. A similar situation occurs for Hindi-Japanese except that Telugu behaves as a bad pivot. Multiple pivots: Row 3 of Table 3 indicates that the log linear combination of all the pivot tables using MDP for Japanese-Hindi gives a BLEU of 34.49, an improvement (p<0.05) over the direct table (BLEU 33.86). For Hindi-Japanese, although the equivalent BLEU score (37.02) is not an improvement over that of the direct table (37.47), it does show that multiple pivots can be used to achieve translation quality similar to the quality obtained by a direct table. Since it was observed that the interpolation of all the pivot tables into a single one gave scores close to the direct tables we decided to try the combination of the all pivots interpolated table with the direct table using MDP. Rows 9 and 10 show that there is a significant improvement compared to the scores of the direct tables alone. But this method of linear + log linear combination would still suffer from the limitation of linear interpolation which led to the final 2 experiments which use only log linear combination. Row 11 shows that the method of combining the direct and all the pivot tables using MDP (one for each table) outperforms all the methods so far. The reason is simple: Only good translation options are collected from all tables during hypothesis expansion, the bad ones are automatically pruned. For Japanese-Hindi the BLEU is 38.42 which is an improvement of 4.56 (13% relative) over the BLEU of the direct phrase table (33.86). For Hindi-Japanese the BLEU of 40.19 is an improvement of 2.72 1199

(7.25% relative) over that of the direct table (37.47). The increment is lesser because of the premise we established in section 4.2.1. This points to an interesting observation that pivot languages induce better phrase pairs in a multilingual setting which are not present in the direct phrase table. This is quite beneficial when the corpora sizes are small which lead to poor quality phrase tables. To test whether exclusion of bad performing pivots leads to improvements in BLEU we performed another oracle experiment in which we only included the pivot phrase tables having significant standalone BLEU difference compared to the others. Korean, Chinese and Esperanto were the ones that stood out. The last row shows that for JapaneseHindi the BLEU (38.22) does not significantly increase over the situation when all pivots are used together (38.42). However for Hindi-Japanese the BLEU is 41.09 which is a significant (p<0.05) increase compared to when all the pivots are used together (40.19 - 2.2% relative). Note that this leads to an absolute BLEU difference of 3.62 (9.66% relative) compared to the BLEU of the direct phrase table. The improvements for Japanese-Hindi were already so large (13%) that more significant improvements would need deeper inspection and improved methods. We believe that further significant improvements are possible and advanced methods to effectively select multiple pivots need to be studied and implemented. 4.2.4 On the number of new phrase pairs induced

Based on the cutoff of 0.001 for the inverse translation probability, Table 4 contains the statistics of the unique phrase pairs in each pivot table (Columns 4 to 10) and the direct table (Column 3) along with the number of phrase pairs common (Column 2) to all. It is quite obvious that each pivot11 induces its own set of unique phrase pairs. 4.2.5 On the improvement in translations Table 5 gives the count of improved translations, out of 500 tested sentences, over the direct using sentence level BLEU difference at various cutoffs. On an average 50% of the sentences showed increase
For each language we use their first 3 characters of their names as the shortened versions.
11

