Response-based Learning for Machine Translation of Open-domain Database Queries
Stefan Riezler Carolin Haas Computational Linguistics Computational Linguistics Heidelberg University Heidelberg University 69120 Heidelberg, Germany 69120 Heidelberg, Germany haas1@cl.uni-heidelberg.de riezler@cl.uni-heidelberg.de

Abstract
Response-based learning allows to adapt a statistical machine translation (SMT) system to an extrinsic task by extracting supervision signals from task-specific feedback. In this paper, we elicit response signals for SMT adaptation by executing semantic parses of translated queries against the Freebase database. The challenge of our work lies in scaling semantic parsers to the lexical diversity of opendomain databases. We find that parser performance on incorrect English sentences, which is standardly ignored in parser evaluation, is key in model selection. In our experiments, the biggest improvements in F1-score for returning the correct answer from a semantic parse for a translated query are achieved by selecting a parser that is carefully enhanced by paraphrases and synonyms.

provides feedback to the response-based learner and defines the final evaluation criterion, the challenge of the presented work lies in scaling the semantic parser to the lexical diversity of open-domain databases such as Freebase. Riezler et al. (2014) showed how to use response-based learning to adapt an SMT system to a semantic parser for the Geoquery domain. The state-of-the-art in semantic parsing on Geoquery achieves a parsing accuracy of over 82% (see Andreas et al. (2013) for an overview), while the state-of-the-art in semantic parsing on the Free917 data (Cai and Yates, 2013) achieves 68.5% accuracy (Berant and Liang, 2014). This is due to the lexical variability of Free917 (2,036 word types) compared to Geoquery (279 word types). In this paper, we compare different ways of scaling up state-of-the-art semantic parsers for Freebase by adding synonyms and paraphrases. First, we consider Berant and Liang (2014)'s own extension of the semantic parser of Berant et al. (2013) by using paraphrases. Second, we apply WordNet synonyms (Miller, 1995) for selected parts of speech to the queries in the Free917 dataset. The new pairs of queries and logical forms are added to the dataset on which the semantic parsers are retrained. We find that both techniques of enhancing the lexical coverage of the semantic parsers result in improved parsing performance, and that the improvements add up nicely. However, improved parsing performance does not correspond to improved F1-score in answer retrieval when using the respective parser in a response-based learning framework. We show that in order to produce helpful feedback for responsebased learning, parser performance on incorrect En-

1

Introduction

In response-based learning for SMT, supervision signals are extracted from an extrinsic response to a machine translation, in contrast to using humangenerated reference translations for supervision. We apply this framework to a scenario in which a semantic parse of a translated database query is executed against the Freebase database. We view learning from such task-specific feedback as adaptation of SMT parameters to the task of translating opendomain database queries, thereby grounding SMT in the task of multilingual database access. The success criterion for this task is F1-score in returning the correct answer from a semantic parse of the translated query, rather than BLEU. Since the semantic parser 1339

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1339­1344, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

