While generating timelines from news articles and summarizing user comments have been studied as separate problems (Yan et al., 2011; Ma et al., 2012), their joint summarization for timeline generation raises new challenges. Firstly, there should be a tight connection between the article and comment portion of the timeline. By definition, users comment on socially relevant events. So the important part of articles and insightful comments should both cover these events. Moreover, good reading experience requires that the article summary and comment summary demonstrate evident connectivity. For example, Comment C in Figure 1 ("Sanctions are effective and if done in unison with the EU") is obscure without knowing the context that "sanctions are imposed by U.S". Simply combining the outputs from a timeline generation system and a comment summarization system may lead to timelines that lack cohesion. On the other hand, articles and comments are from intrinsically different genres of text: articles emphasize facts and are written in a professional style; comments reflect opinions in a less formal way. Thus, it could be difficult to recognize the connections between articles and comments. Finally, it is also challenging to enforce continuity in timelines with many entities and events. To address the challenges mentioned above, we formulate the timeline generation task as an optimization problem, where we maximize topic cohesion between the article and comment summaries while preserving their ability to reflect important concepts and subevents, adequate coverage of mentioned topics, and continuity of the timeline as it is updated with new material each day. We design a novel alternating optimizing algorithm that allows the generation of a high quality article summary and comment summary via mutual reinforcement. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm on four disparate complex event datasets collected over months from the New York Times, CNN, and BBC. Automatic evaluation using ROUGE (Lin and Hovy, 2003) and gold standard timelines indicates that our system can effectively leverage user comments to outperform state-of-the-art approaches on timeline generation. In a human evaluation via Amazon Mechanical Turk, the comment summaries generated by our method were selected as the best in terms of informativeness and insightfulness in 66.7% and 1056

51.7% of the evaluations (vs. 26.7% and 30.0% for randomly selected editor's-picks). Especially, our optimization framework relies on two scoring functions that estimate the importance of including individual article sentences and user comments in the timeline. Based on the observation that entities or events frequently discussed in the user comments can help with identify summaryworthy content, we show that the scoring functions can be learned jointly by utilizing graph-based regularization. Experiments show that our joint learning model outperforms state-of-the-art ranking algorithms and other joint learning based methods when evaluated on sentence ranking and comment ranking. For example, we achieve an NDCG@3 of 0.88 on the Ukraine crisis dataset, compared to 0.77 from Yang et al. (2011) which also conducts joint learning between articles and social context using factor graphs. Finally, to encourage continuity in the generated timeline, we propose an entity-centered event threading algorithm. Human evaluation demonstrates that users who read timelines with event threads write more informative answers than users who do not see the threads while answering the same questions. This implies that our system constructed threads can help users better navigate the timelines and collect relevant information in a short time. For the rest of the paper, we first describe data collection (Section 2). We then introduce the joint learning model for importance prediction (Section 3). The full timeline generation system is presented in Section 4, which is followed by evaluations (Section 5). Related work and conclusion are in Sections 6 and 7.

2

Data Collection and Preprocessing

We crawled news articles from New York Times (NYT), CNN, and BBC on four trending events: the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 (MH370), the political unrest in Ukraine (Ukraine), the IsraelGaza conflict (Israel-Gaza), and the NSA surveillance leaks (NSA). For each event, we select a set of key words (usually entities' name), which are used to filter out irrelevant articles. We collect comments for NYT articles through NYT community API, and comments for CNN articles via Disqus

