Multilingual Open Relation Extraction Using Cross-lingual Projection
Manaal Faruqui Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213 mfaruqui@cs.cmu.edu Shankar Kumar Google Inc. New York, NY 10011 shankarkumar@google.com

Abstract
Open domain relation extraction systems identify relation and argument phrases in a sentence without relying on any underlying schema. However, current state-of-the-art relation extraction systems are available only for English because of their heavy reliance on linguistic tools such as part-of-speech taggers and dependency parsers. We present a cross-lingual annotation projection method for language independent relation extraction. We evaluate our method on a manually annotated test set and present results on three typologically different languages. We release these manual annotations and extracted relations in ten languages from Wikipedia.

1

Introduction

Relation extraction (RE) is the task of assigning a semantic relationship between a pair of arguments. The two major types of RE are closed domain and open domain RE. While closed-domain RE systems (Bunescu and Mooney, 2005; Bunescu, 2007; Mintz et al., 2009; Yao and Van Durme, 2014; Berant and Liang, 2014) consider only a closed set of relationships between two arguments, open domain systems (Yates et al., 2007; Carlson et al., 2010; Fader et al., 2011; Mausam et al., 2012) use an arbitrary phrase to specify a relationship. In this paper, we focus on open-domain RE for multiple languages. Although there are advantages to closed domain RE (Banko and Etzioni, 2008), it is expensive to construct a closed set of relation types which would be meaningful across multiple languages. Open RE systems extract patterns from sentences in a given language to identify relations. For learn1351

ing these patterns, the sentences are analyzed using a part of speech tagger, a dependency parser and possibly a named-entity recognizer. In languages other than English, these tools are either unavailable or not accurate enough to be used. In comparison, it is easier to obtain parallel bilingual corpora which can be used to build machine translation systems (Resnik and Smith, 2003; Smith et al., 2013). In this paper, we present a system that performs RE on a sentence in a source language by first translating the sentence to English, performing RE in English, and finally projecting the relation phrase back to the source language sentence. Our system assumes the availability of a machine translation system from a source language to English and an open RE system in English but no any other analysis tool in the source language. The main contributions of this work are: · A pipeline to develop relation extraction system for any source language. · Extracted open relations in ten languages based on Wikipedia corpus. · Manual judgements for the projected relations in three languages. We first describe our methodology for language independent cross-lingual projection of extracted relations (§2) followed by the relation annotation procedure and the results (§3). The manually annotated relations in 3 languages and the automatically extracted relations in 10 languages are available at: http://cs.cmu.edu/~mfaruqui/ soft.html.

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1351­1356, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

