Estimating Numerical Attributes by Bringing Together Fragmentary Clues
Hiroya Takamura and Jun'ichi Tsujii Tokyo Institute of Technology Microsoft Research Asia takamura@pi.titech.ac.jp jtsujii@microsoft.com

Abstract
This work is an attempt to automatically obtain numerical attributes of physical objects. We propose representing each physical object as a feature vector and representing sizes as linear functions of feature vectors. We train the function in the framework of the combined regression and ranking with many types of fragmentary clues including absolute clues (e.g., A is 30cm long) and relative clues (e.g., A is larger than B ).

numerical knowledge to eliminate the out-of-range answer candidates to numerical questions. A number of attempts similar to the current work have been made in some other fields such as psychology or fuzzy theory. However, such attempts heavily rely on costly experiments such as giving questionnaires to human subjects and have a problem in their scalability. In contrast, the current work attempts to use NLP techniques on large text data both online and offline in order to obtain such knowledge without relying on costly experiments such as questionnaires. A possible criticism of this project is that simply examining an existing knowledge source such as Wikipedia might accomplish this purpose without much effort. Indeed Wikipedia provides numerical information of some physical objects, but not all. For example, the Wikipedia page for watches provides descriptions on their function and their history, but no information on their size. Clues to the numerical attributes are rather scattered over corpora and other linguistic resources. In a corpus, we can find informative descriptions such as "X is 35cm tall". We can also find text fragments suggesting an order relation between two physical objects with regard to the size as in "X is larger than Y", as well as implicit clues such as "I put X into Y", which usually means X is smaller than Y . Holonymy relations (X is a part of Y ) in a thesaurus suggest an order relation in size (X is smaller than Y ). Glosses in a dictionary also provide subtle clues to the sizes of entry words. Each of these clues alone is not sufficient for precisely determining the size, so we have to bring them together. We have therefore developed a mathematical model that uses these

1 Introduction
We know how large surfboards usually are and also that an inner pocket of any jacket is much smaller than a surfboard. Since we know about these numerical attributes, nobody of sound mind has probably ever tried to vainly put a surfboard into an inner pocket of a jacket. However, computers do not have comprehensive knowledge of this sort. This lack of comprehensive knowledge of the numerical attributes is one obstacle to flexible and natural manmachine communication. This work is an attempt to automatically obtain knowledge on numerical attributes so that computers can use it. The knowledge on numerical attributes is also very useful on many other occasions. For example, it enables computers to alert their users when the users input incorrect numbers that are outside of the normal range of the attribute. In image recognition, a large red object will unlikely be recognized as a strawberry if the computer knows its normal size. In natural language processing, QA systems can use

1305
Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1305­1310, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

