Good News or Bad News: Using Affect Control Theory to Analyze Readers' Reaction Towards News Articles
Areej Ahothali David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science University of Waterloo Waterloo, Ontario, N2L3G1 aalhotha@cs.uwaterloo.ca Jesse Hoey David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science University of Waterloo Waterloo, Ontario, N2L3G1 jhoey@cs.uwaterloo.ca

Abstract
This paper proposes a novel approach to sentiment analysis that leverages work in sociology on symbolic interactionism. The proposed approach uses Affect Control Theory (ACT) to analyze readers' sentiment towards factual (objective) content and towards its entities (subject and object). ACT is a theory of affective reasoning that uses empirically derived equations to predict the sentiments and emotions that arise from events. This theory relies on several large lexicons of words with affective ratings in a three-dimensional space of evaluation, potency, and activity (EPA). The equations and lexicons of ACT were evaluated on a newly collected news-headlines corpus. ACT lexicon was expanded using a label propagation algorithm, resulting in 86,604 new words. The predicted emotions for each news headline was then computed using the augmented lexicon and ACT equations. The results had a precision of 82%, 79%, and 68% towards the event, the subject, and object, respectively. These results are significantly higher than those of standard sentiment analysis techniques.

as emotion theories to identify sentiment expressions in natural language texts. They typically focus on analyzing subjective documents from the writer's perspective using frequency-based word representations and mapping them to categorical labels or sentiment polarity, in which text (e.g., sentence or document) is associated, respectively, with either a descriptive label or a point in a continuum. In this paper, we focus on analyzing objective statements. Unlike subjective statements, that contain an explicit opinion or belief about an object or aspect (e.g., "Seventh Son is a terrible movie"), objective statements present only factual information (e.g., "protestors were arrested in NYC"). Despite the limited research on fact-based sentiment analysis, many factual statements may carry or evoke sentiments (e.g., news articles, blog comments. etc.). Thus, there is a need for a new approach that attaches sentiment scores to objective (factual) statements as well as to the components that make them up. For example, a sentence like "x kills y" will clearly evoke a negative sentiment for the reader, and highly negative (yet different) sentiments towards each x and y (angry about x and sorry about y). Further, our affective evaluation of each entity participating in the event might affect our judgement of the situation. For example, if we know that x is a victim and y is a criminal, then the triggered sentiment will be more positive in general, positive towards x, but still negative towards y. The proposed method in this paper builds a contextual model that maps words to a multidimensional emotion space by using Affect Control Theory (ACT). ACT is a social psychological

1

Introduction

Natural language texts are often meant to express or impact individuals' emotions. Recognizing the underlying emotions expressed in or triggered by a text is essential to understanding the full meaning that a message conveys. Sentiment analysis (SA) researchers are increasingly interested in investigating natural language processing techniques as well 1548

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1548­1558, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

