Leveraging Small Multilingual Corpora for SMT Using Many Pivot Languages
Raj Dabre Graduate School of Informatics Kyoto University Kyoto 606-8501 prajdabre@gmail.com Sadao Kurohashi Graduate School of Informatics Kyoto University Kyoto 606-8501 kuro@i.kyoto-u.ac.jp Abstract
We present our work on leveraging multilingual parallel corpora of small sizes for Statistical Machine Translation between Japanese and Hindi using multiple pivot languages. In our setting, the source and target part of the corpus remains the same, but we show that using several different pivot to extract phrase pairs from these source and target parts lead to large BLEU improvements. We focus on a variety of ways to exploit phrase tables generated using multiple pivots to support a direct source-target phrase table. Our main method uses the Multiple Decoding Paths (MDP) feature of Moses, which we empirically verify as the best compared to the other methods we used. We compare and contrast our various results to show that one can overcome the limitations of small corpora by using as many pivot languages as possible in a multilingual setting. Most importantly, we show that such pivoting aids in learning of additional phrase pairs which are not learned when the direct sourcetarget corpus is small. We obtained improvements of up to 3 BLEU points using multiple pivots for Japanese to Hindi translation compared to when only one pivot is used. To the best of our knowledge, this work is also the first of its kind to attempt the simultaneous utilization of 7 pivot languages at decoding time.

Fabien Cromieres Japan Science and Technology Agency Kawaguchi-shi Saitama 332-0012 fabien@pa.jst.jp Pushpak Bhattacharyya CFILT IIT Bombay, Powai India 400076 pushpakbh@gmail.com
with the availability of large parallel corpora in the sizes of millions of lines. With the exception of the major European languages and a few Asian languages like Chinese and Japanese, other languages have parallel corpora in the sizes of a few thousands of lines. Since translation quality is related to the size of the parallel corpus, it is impossible to achieve the same level of translation quality as that in the case of resource rich languages. To remedy this scenario, an intermediate resource rich language can be exploited. Although, finding a direct parallel corpus between source and target languages might be difficult, there are higher odds of finding a pair of parallel corpora: one between the source language and an intermediate resource rich language (henceforth called pivot1 ) and one between that pivot and the target language. Using the methods developed for Pivot Based SMT (Wu and Wang, 2007) (Utiyama and Isahara, 2007) one can use the source-pivot and pivot-target parallel corpora to develop a source-target translation system (henceforth called as pivot based system 2 ) . Moreover, if there exists a small source-target parallel corpus then the resulting system (henceforth called as direct system3 ) can be supported by the pivot based source-target system to significantly improve the translation quality. Note that in this paper we use the terms "translation system" and "phrase table" interchangeably since the phrase table is the
In most cases this is English. The phrase table will be known as the pivot phrase table. 3 The phrase table will be called as direct phrase table and the corpus will be the direct parallel corpus.
2 1

1

Introduction

With the increasing size of parallel corpora it has become possible to achieve very high quality translation. However, not all language pairs are blessed 1192

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1192­1202, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

