negative. However, in this case the author actually expresses a positive view of an online university, defending it from people who claim that online education is "too easy". In the third example, the correct sentiment (negative) would again be impossible to determine because of a complicated structure. These are just a few examples of what is currently impossible to classify correctly relying on lexical resources. To improve the classification results, there have been attempts to use local discourse information, such as discourse cues and polarity of adjacent sentences, in order to correct some of the misclassified sentences (Somasundaran, 2010). However, though such attempts resulted in some improvements, they also required quite complicated frameworks. While such bottom-up approach (starting from lexical polarity and adding supplementary information to improve classification on a phrase and text level) is commonly used in sentiment analysis, we are wondering if it is the only valid one. Provided that we have a reliable external measure of a text's general polarity (such as a product rating for a product review) and the narrative has a predictable discourse structure, would not it be possible to classify its sentences in a top-down manner, without using any sentiment lexicons? In this paper, we experiment with this approach and compare its results with those of the traditional bottom-up method. This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents a brief overview of previous studies related to sentiment analysis of product reviews, while section 3 explains the motivation behind taking an alternative approach. In section 4 we give the details of the experiments, and then in section 5 present their results. Lastly, section 6 summarizes our findings.

2

Previous Studies

Sentiment analysis so far has largely relied on explicit lexical information, either in the form of sentiment dictionaries and lexicons, such as SentiWordNet 2 or Subjectivity lexicon 3 , opinion phrases extracted from a manually-annotated corpus or a dataset compiled in real time using
2 3

machine learning with such lexical features as bagof-words features, n-grams, collocations, or more sophisticated lexical patterns (Tang, 2009). As researchers realized the limitations of a purely lexical approach, they tried to augment it by using negation resolution, word meaning disambiguation or hand-crafted rules (Ding, 2008). However, though such efforts improved classification on the sentence level, they were not able to deal with the sentences where an opinion was implicit (i.e. there were no appraisal words or other lexical cues, see example 1 above) or the polarity of the sentiment word was different from the usual one (see example 2 above). To correct such misclassified instances, another level of complexity was added by using discourse features. Somasundaran (2010) defines opinion frames to enforce discourse constraints on the polarity of segments with the same or alternative target relations. Using a similar approach, Zhou et al. (2011) employ simplified Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) relation cues (contrast, condition, continuation, cause and purpose) to eliminate polarity ambiguities. Yang (2014) concentrates on discovering opinionated sentences which do not have strong sentiment signals (implicit opinions), using discourse knowledge to improve the results of a Conditional Random Fields classifier. While such approaches are a definite improvement over the lexical baseline, they are computationally complex and still overly dependent on the lexical cues. While machine learning algorithms such as Naïve Bayes or SVM are still the primary tools used for sentiment analysis, lately such texts as product reviews have been recognized as having an internal structure and inter-sentential relations, and thus structural conditional frameworks have been used for their classification. One popular tool is Conditional Random Fields (CRF), which was used, among others, by Zhao (2008) to classify sentiments on a sentence level, by Breck (2007) to identify subjective expressions, and by Li (2010) to summarize product reviews taking their structure into account.

3

Motivation behind Top-down Approach

http://sentiwordnet.isti.cnr.it/ (Baccianella et al., 2010) http://mpqa.cs.pitt.edu/lexicons/subj_lexicon/ (Wilson et al., 2005)

Though most of the previous studies treat product reviews as a bag of sentences or even words, in fact they are narratives that have a specific structure. While their structure is less rigid and

1560

