we use biomedical concepts, ontology information, keyphrases and the syntactic structure of the citance. 2.3.1. Unmodified query (baseline): The citance after removing stop words, numeric values and citation markers (i.e. the actual indicator of the citation) serves as our baseline. 2.3.2. Biomedical concepts (UMLS-reduce): We remove from the query those terms that do not map to any medical concept in the UMLS1 metathesaurus. We use MetaMap (Aronson, 2001) to map biomedical expressions in the citances to UMLS concepts. More specifically, our heuristic greedily matches the longest expressions in the citance to concepts in the UMLS metathesaurus; such strategy was deemed the most appropriate after experimenting with various matching approaches. We limited the scope of UMLS-reduce to SNOMED Clinical Terms (Bos et al., 2006) collection of UMLS and the "preferred concepts" (i.e., concepts that are determined by the National Library of Medicine to provide the best representation for a concept); terms that are not mapped to any UMLS concept were removed. 2.3.3. Noun phrases (NP): Citances include many important biological concepts, often appearing as noun phrases. For this reason, we reformulate citance by only keeping noun phrases and filtering out other parts of speech. We retain noun phrases that consist of up to 3 terms, as longer phrases were empirically determined to be too specific. Stopwords are removed from noun phrases. 2.3.4. Keyword based (KW ): We consider a statistical measure for identifying key terms in the citance. Specifically, we computed the idf 2 of the terms in the citance in a domain-specific corpus to evaluate their importance. Given the domain of our dataset, we used the Open Access Subset of PubMed Central3 . We filter out the terms whose idf value is less than a fixed threshold (after empirical evaluation, this threshold was set to 2.5). 2.3.5. Biomedical expansion (UMLS-expand): The terminology used by the citing author and the referenced author is not necessarily identical. Multiple
1 2

terms or multi-word expressions can be mapped to the same concepts and each author might use their own choice of terms for describing a concept. In this approach, we add related terminology to the important concepts in the citance to solve this issue. Since our dataset consists of articles from biomedical literature, we took advantage of the UMLS metathesaurus to expand terms or multi-word expressions with their synonyms. We did not enforce any threshold for the number of terms added by UMLS-expand. However, in order to prevent query drift, we expanded citances using only UMLS's "preferred concepts" and concepts from the "SNOMED Clinical Terms" (SNOMED CT) terminology. 2.3.6. Combined reformulation: Due to the narrative structure of citances and their relative long length, using all citance terms for expansion is likely to cause query drift. Therefore, we first reduce the citance using one of previously described reduction approaches and then apply query expansion. In detail, we evaluated the combination of noun phrases and UMLS expansion, as well as UMLS reduction and expansion. 2.4 Combining retrieved spans Due to our indexing strategy described in section 2.1, some text spans retrieved by the search engine could overlap with each other. Intuitively, if a span containing multiple contiguous sentences {s1 , . . . , sl } is retrieved alongside any of its constituent sentences si , its relevance score should be increased to account for the relevance of si . We exploited such intuition by adding the score of each span with the score of any of the constituent sentences or sub-spans retrieved alongside it. After the score is updated, the constituent sentences or sub-spans are removed from the list of retrieved results. Finally, because the number of reference spans indicated by the annotators in our data set is at most three, the system returns the top three results. It is worth mentioning that we also looked at some other query reformulation approaches such as pseudo relevance feedback (Buckley et al., 1995) and Wikipedia based biomedical term filtering (Cohan et al., 2014); however, our experimentations should that these methods performed substantially worse than the baseline, consequently, we do not report those results nor their relevant discussions.

http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/ Inverted Document Frequency 3 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/

1044

