6

Discussion

We investigated the hypothesis that speakers optimize their language production so as to approximate uniform information density, a signature of efficient communication through a noisy channel (Shannon, 1948; Levy and Jaeger, 2007). Previous work had observed indirect evidence for UID via increases in linguistic complexity (which were hypothesized to reflect increasing discourse/contextual knowledge), but this work neither measured contextual information directly nor included non-linguistic measures of context (Genzel and Charniak, 2002; Genzel and Charniak, 2003; Qian and Jaeger, 2012). Our current work takes a first step towards addressing these issues by using microblog texts around shared events (baseball games) as a case study in which a known context can be characterized more precisely. With this approach, we find systematic differences in information rate and total information content as a function of nonlinguistic factors. We successfully replicated the effect found in previous work: a gradual increase in entropy rate over the course of individual baseball games. But in addition to this effect, we found a striking pattern of short-timescale changes in total message entropy (reflected in the changing lengths of messages). When in-game events were exciting, unpredictable, and outcome-relevant (hence, highly informative), message length and total entropy went down. This regularity suggests that Twitter users were regulating the information content of their messages relative to the total communicative content of the context more broadly, a prediction that can be derived directly from the UID model. Our work highlights the importance of nonlinguistic context for the informational content of language. This relationship is widely acknowledged in theories of pragmatic communication (Grice, 1975; Sperber and Wilson, 1986; Clark, 1996; Frank and Goodman, 2012), but has been largely absent in information-theoretic treatments of linguistic complexity. The omission of this information has largely been for pragmatic, rather than theoretical, reasons: As Genzel and Charniak 2002 note, it is typically very difficult to compute semantic-- let alone non-linguistic--information content. Our work suggests that internet communications sur1594

rounding shared media events may be a promising source of grounded language use where context can be quantified more effectively due to the existence of substantial metadata. A growing literature suggests that the information content of language is the critical variable for understanding processing difficulty in language comprehension (Levy, 2008; Demberg and Keller, 2008; Boston et al., 2008; Smith and Levy, 2013). Under surprisal theory (Hale, 2001; Levy, 2008), the overall predictability of individual elements of language is assumed to be due to a predictive model of its likelihood in the current context. Given this model of processing difficulty, our work here makes a strong prediction: that the information processing difficulty of a word or sentence should track with its total information content (including its relationship to the non-linguistic context), rather than its linguistic information content alone. Some preliminary evidence supports this idea. In a study of the processing complexity of negative utterances, Nordmeyer and Frank 2014 found that the processing cost of negation was predicted by the surprisal of encountering the negation in a particular pragmatic context. But future work should test this hypothesis across a wider variety of structures and contexts. In sum, our work contributes to the growing body of evidence in favor of the UID hypothesis. The mechanisms underlying the tendency to regulate information content are still unknown, however. While UID would follow from a strong form of audience design, in which speakers explicitly consider the processing difficulty of different content (Clark, 1996), the UID hypothesis could also emerge from simpler production processes. Untangling these possibilities will not be trivial. Regardless of the resolution of this issue, however, UID appears to be an important descriptive tool in capturing how speakers make production choices.

Acknowledgments
We gratefully acknowledge the support of ONR Grant N00014-13-1-0287.

