from these lexicons. PPDB. The paraphrase database (Ganitkevitch et al., 2013) is a semantic lexicon containing more than 220 million paraphrase pairs of English.5 Of these, 8 million are lexical (single word to single word) paraphrases. The key intuition behind the acquisition of its lexical paraphrases is that two words in one language that align, in parallel text, to the same word in a different language, should be synonymous. For example, if the words jailed and imprisoned are translated as the same word in another language, it may be reasonable to assume they have the same meaning. In our experiments, we instantiate an edge in E for each lexical paraphrase in PPDB. The lexical paraphrase dataset comes in different sizes ranging from S to XXXL, in decreasing order of paraphrasing confidence and increasing order of size. We chose XL for our experiments. We want to give higher edge weights (i ) connecting the retrofitted word vectors (q ) to the purely distributional word vectors (q ^) than to edges connecting the retrofitted vectors to each other (ij ), so all i are set to 1 and ij to be degree(i)-1 (with i being the node the update is being applied to).6 WordNet. WordNet (Miller, 1995) is a large human-constructed semantic lexicon of English words. It groups English words into sets of synonyms called synsets, provides short, general definitions, and records the various semantic relations between synsets. This database is structured in a graph particularly suitable for our task because it explicitly relates concepts with semantically aligned relations such as hypernyms and hyponyms. For example, the word dog is a synonym of canine, a hypernym of puppy and a hyponym of animal. We perform two different experiments with WordNet: (1) connecting a word only to synonyms, and (2) connecting a word to synonyms, hypernyms and hyponyms. We refer to these two graphs as WNsyn and WNall , respectively. In both settings, all i are set to 1 and ij to be degree(i)-1 .
http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~ccb/ppdb In principle, these hyperparameters can be tuned to optimize performance on a particular task, which we leave for future work.
6 5

FrameNet. FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998; Fillmore et al., 2003) is a rich linguistic resource containing information about lexical and predicateargument semantics in English. Frames can be realized on the surface by many different word types, which suggests that the word types evoking the same frame should be semantically related. For example, the frame Cause change of position on a scale is associated with push, raise, and growth (among many others). In our use of FrameNet, two words that group together with any frame are given an edge in E . We refer to this graph as FN. All i are set to 1 and ij to be degree(i)-1 .

5

Evaluation Benchmarks

We evaluate the quality of our word vector representations on tasks that test how well they capture both semantic and syntactic aspects of the representations along with an extrinsic sentiment analysis task. Word Similarity. We evaluate our word representations on a variety of different benchmarks that have been widely used to measure word similarity. The first one is the WS-353 dataset (Finkelstein et al., 2001) containing 353 pairs of English words that have been assigned similarity ratings by humans. The second benchmark is the RG-65 (Rubenstein and Goodenough, 1965) dataset that contain 65 pairs of nouns. Since the commonly used word similarity datasets contain a small number of word pairs we also use the MEN dataset (Bruni et al., 2012) of 3,000 word pairs sampled from words that occur at least 700 times in a large web corpus. We calculate cosine similarity between the vectors of two words forming a test item, and report Spearman's rank correlation coefficient (Myers and Well, 1995) between the rankings produced by our model against the human rankings. Syntactic Relations (SYN-REL). Mikolov et al. (2013b) present a syntactic relation dataset composed of analogous word pairs. It contains pairs of tuples of word relations that follow a common syntactic relation. For example, given walking and walked, the words are differently inflected forms of the same verb. There are nine different kinds of relations and overall there are 10,675 syntactic pairs of word tuples. The task is to find a word d that best

1609

