Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. ROUGE: a package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Proceedings of ACL Workshop on Text Summarization Branches Out. Fei Liu and Yang Liu. 2013. Towards abstractive speech summarization: Exploring unsupervised and supervised approaches for spoken utterance compression. IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing. Ivana Ljubi´ c, Ren´ e Weiskircher, Ulrich Pferschy, Gunnar W. Klau, Petra Mutzel, and Matteo Fischetti. 2006. An Algorithmic Framework for the Exact Solution of the Prize-Collecting Steiner Tree Problem. In Mathematical Progamming, Series B. Andre F. T. Martins and Noah A. Smith. 2009. Summarization with a joint model for sentence extraction and compression. In Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Integer Linear Programming for Natural Language Processing. Andre F. T. Martins, Noah A. Smith, and Eric P. Xing. 2009. Concise integer linear programming formulations for dependency parsing. In Proceedings of ACL. Ryan McDonald. 2007. A study of global inference algorithms in multi-document summarization. In Proceedings of ECIR. Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau. 2004. TextRank: Bringing order into text. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Courtney Napoles, Benjamin Van Durme, and Chris Callison-Burch. 2011. Evaluating Sentence Compression: Pitfalls and Suggested Remedies. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Monolingual Text-To-Text Generation, MTTG '11, pages 91­97, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics. Ani Nenkova and Kathleen McKeown. 2011. Automatic summarization. Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval. Xian Qian and Yang Liu. 2013. Fast joint compression and summarization via graph cuts. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Norman Sadeh, Alessandro Acquisti, Travis D. Breaux, Lorrie Faith Cranor, Aleecia M. McDonald, Joel R. Reidenberg, Noah A. Smith, Fei Liu, N. Cameron Russell, Florian Schaub, and Shomir Wilson. 2013. The usable privacy policy project. Technical Report, CMU-ISR-13-119, Carnegie Mellon University. Arie Segev. 1987. The Node-Weighted Steiner Tree Problem. Networks, 17(1):1­17. Ben Taskar, Carlos Guestrin, and Daphne Koller. 2004. Max-margin Markov networks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 16. Kapil Thadani and Kathleen McKeown. 2013. Sentence compression with joint structural inference. In Proceedings of CoNLL.

Lucy Vanderwende, Michele Banko, , and Arul Menezes. 2004. Event-centric summary generation. In Proceedings of DUC. Bin Zhao and Eric P. Xing. 2014. Quasi real-time summarization for consumer videos. In Proceedings of CVPR.

1086

