of a single word, thus our spelling features are on the token level. In addition, unlike their work where POS and parsing information is used for named entity candidate selection, we do not have the candidate selection component given that no Sumerian POS tagger or parser available. In fact, further complicating factors in determining syntactic features include the lack of standardization in spelling and inconsistent scribal quality. 3.2 Our System Our NER system has three components: the preprocessing component, the Decision List Co-Train (DL-CoTrain) (Collins and Singer, 1999) component and the post-processing component. When the Sumerologists transliterate the tablets, they use metacharacters such as "[...]" and "#" to indicate damage to the text, and "!", "?", "*", and "<...>" to represent correction, querying or collation (Tinney and Robson, 2014). For "[...]" and "<...>" cases, the Sumerologists put their "best guess" within the brackets. For example, in the word "[nu]-su", the first sign was originally damaged but restored by the Sumerologists as the "best guess". Our system removes the metacharacters as noise, and treats the resulting text as if it were otherwise unannotated. To utilize the pre-knowledge from the language experts and (Weibull, 2004), we apply a tag set of 13 tags to pre-annotate the corpus. The 13 tags in the tag set {"GN", "FN", "TN", "WN", "MN", "n", "TITLE", "UNIT", "GOODS", "OCCUPATION", "YEAR", "MONTH", "DAY"} represent geographical names, field names, temple names, watercourse names, month names, numbers, title names, unit names, trade goods names, occupation names and indicators for year, month and day, respectively. After the above pre-processing step, we applied the DL-CoTrain method by utilizing contextual and spelling rules to create a decision list. A contextual rule specifies the context for a named-entity with the window size of 1 or -1 (the right word or the left word). For example, according to the contextual rule "right context = TITLE  Person", "nam-zi" is recognized as a personal name in "nam-zi simug" given that "simug" is pre-tagged as "TITLE" (Smith) in the pre-processing phase. 1449

A spelling rule specifies the spelling of a namedentity. It is a sign sequence that can be either the full string of an entity or is contained as a substring of the entity. For example, "contains(ab-ba)  Person" is a spelling rule. By applying the rule, the word "ab-ba-sab-ga-ta" is recognized as a personal name. With the spelling rule "full-string = ur-{d}szul-pa-e3  Person", the word "ur-{d}szul-pa-e3" is recognized as a personal name. We use the following three contextual rules (Jaworski, 2008) as the seed rules for the system 1) left context = giri3  Person 2) left context = kiszib3  Person 3) left context = mu-DU  Person. The first rule indicates that a person is acting as an intermediary in the transaction. The second rule indicates that the tablet was sealed by the named individual, and usually appears in administrative records. The last rule indicates that a delivery was made to the named individual. Since these seed rules have a high specificity to personal names, each of them is given a strength of 0.99999. The major task of the system is to learn a decision list to classify a word as a personal name. Initialized with the 3 contextual seed rules, the decision list is applied to label the training data to get spelling rules. In the next iteration, the newly obtained spelling rules are applied to label the training data to get new contextual rules. In this alternating process, each iteration produces a new set of rules which are ranked by their strength. In our NER system, we experimentally settled on a ranking criterion that made use of frequency of some feature x, instead of (smoothed) relative frequency as used in (Collins and Singer, 1999), in order to avoid the problem of some context feature occurs once only as the cue of a personal name, and reverting to the relative frequency formula in the case of ties. The two post-processing rules are applied to eliminate false positives 1) A word that starts with a number should not be a name; 2) A word following the word "iti" (month indicator) should not be a name. The application of these 2 rules improved the performance by 0.5%.

