Tseng et al. (2014) describe an open RE for Chinese that employs word segmentation, POS-tagging, dependency parsing. Lewis and Steedman (2013) learn clusters of semantically equivalent relations across French and English by creating a semantic signature of relations by entity-typing. These relations are extracted using CCG parsing in English and dependency parsing in French. Blessing and Sch¨ utze (2012) use inter-wiki links to map relations from a relation database in a pivot language to the target language and use these instances for learning in a distant supervision setting. Gerber and Ngomo (2012) describe a multilingual pattern extraction system for RDF predicates that uses preexisting knowledge bases for different languages.

References
Michele Banko and Oren Etzioni. 2008. The tradeoffs between open and traditional relation extraction. In Proceedings of ACL. J. Berant and P. Liang. 2014. Semantic parsing via paraphrasing. In Proceedings of ACL. Andre Blessing and Hinrich Sch¨ utze. 2012. Crosslingual distant supervision for extracting relations of different complexity. In Proceedings of CIKM. Razvan C. Bunescu and Raymond J. Mooney. 2005. A shortest path dependency kernel for relation extraction. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Razvan C. Bunescu. 2007. Learning to extract relations from the web using minimal supervision. In Proceedings of ACL. Andrew Carlson, Justin Betteridge, Bryan Kisiel, Burr Settles, Estevam R. Hruschka Jr., and Tom M. Mitchell. 2010. Toward an architecture for neverending language learning. In Proceedings of AAAI. Anthony Fader, Stephen Soderland, and Oren Etzioni. 2011. Identifying relations for open information extraction. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Pablo Gamallo, Marcos Garcia, and Santiago Fern´ andezLanza. 2012. Dependency-based open information extraction. In Proceedings of ROBUS-UNSUP. Daniel Gerber and Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo. 2012. Extracting multilingual natural-language patterns for rdf predicates. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management. Rebecca Hwa, Philip Resnik, Amy Weinberg, Clara Cabezas, and Okan Kolak. 2005. Bootstrapping parsers via syntactic projection across parallel texts. Natural Language Engineering, 11:11­311. Seokhwan Kim and Gary Geunbae Lee. 2012. A graphbased cross-lingual projection approach for weakly supervised relation extraction. In Proceedings of ACL. Seokhwan Kim, Minwoo Jeong, Jonghoon Lee, and Gary Geunbae Lee. 2011. A cross-lingual annotation projection-based self-supervision approach for open information extraction. In Proceedings of IJCNLP. Seokhwan Kim, Minwoo Jeong, Jonghoon Lee, and Gary Geunbae Lee. 2014. Cross-lingual annotation projection for weakly-supervised relation extraction. ACM Trans. Asian Lang. Inf. Process., pages 3­3. Mike Lewis and Mark Steedman. 2013. Unsupervised induction of cross-lingual semantic relations. In Proceedings of EMNLP. Mausam, Michael Schmitz, Robert Bart, Stephen Soderland, and Oren Etzioni. 2012. Open language learning for information extraction. In Proceedings of EMNLPCoNLL.

5

Conclusion

We have presented a language independent open domain relation extraction pipeline and have evaluated its performance on three typologically different languages: French, Hindi and Russian. Our cross-lingual projection method utilizes O LLIE and G OOGLE T RANSLATE to extract relations in the language of interest. Our approach does not rely on the availability of linguistic resources such as POS-taggers or dependency parsers in the target language and can thus be extended to multiple languages supported by a machine translation system. We are releasing the manually annotated judgements for open relations in the three languages and the open relations extracted over the entire Wikipedia corpus in ten languages. The resources are available at: http://cs.cmu.edu/~mfaruqui/ soft.html.

Acknowledgment
This work was performed when the first author was an intern at Google. We thank Richard Sproat for providing comments on an earlier draft of this paper. We thank Hao Zhang for helping us with the relation extraction framework, and Richard Zens and Kishore Papineni for their feedback on this work. We are grateful to Bruno Cartoni, Vitaly Nikolaev and their teams for providing us annotations of multilingual relations. 1355

