Zelditch, 2002; Heise, 2007). Lexicons of EPA values have been gathered for thousands of words from different languages and cultures including Germany, Japan, Canada and the USA. In general, within-cultural agreement about EPA meanings of social concepts is high even across subgroups of society, and cultural-average EPA ratings from as little as a few dozen survey participants have been shown to be extremely stable over extended periods of time (Heise, 2010). These findings may seem surprising in light of societal conflicts as evidenced, for instance, by competing political ideologies. Research has consistently shown that the number of contested concepts is small relative to the stable and consensual semantic structures that form the basis of our social interactions and shared cultural understanding (Heise, 2010). 3.2 Affect Control Theory In ACT, each event has at least three elements: actor (subject, S), behavior (verb, V), and object (O). Each of these elements is represented by three values (EPA) that capture the fundamental sentiments they evoke in terms of evaluation, potency, and activity. The fundamental sentiment of an event according to ACT grammar is a nine-dimensional vector: f = {Se Sp Se Ve Vp Va Oe Op Oa } where e.g. Se represents the fundamental sentiment about the subject (S) on the evaluation (e) dimension. The transient impression evoked by an event is another 9D vector:  = {Se Sp Se Ve Vp Va Oe Op Oa } where fundamental EPA values are denoted by non-primed symbols and post-event EPA values are denoted by primed symbols. The transient impression  is computed by multiplying t, a vector of features that are combinations of terms from the fundamental sentiment f , by a matrix M of prediction coefficients estimated by impression-formation research. t = (1 Se Sp Sa Ve Vp Va Oe Op Oa Se Ve Se Vp Se Va Sp Ve Sp Vp Sp Oa Sa Va Ve Oe Ve Op Vp Oe Vp Op Vp Oa Va Oe Va Op Se Ve Oe Se Vp Op Sp Vp Op Sp Vp Oa Sa Va Oa ) 1551

 = Mt

(1)

For example, the transient impression of the subject's valence, Se , using US male coefficients: Se = -.98 + .48 Se - .015 Sp - .015 Sa + .425 Ve - .069 Vp - .106 Va + .055 Oe ... This part of the equation shows that our evaluation of the subject/actor is affected mainly by how the valence of this person and action are perceived by others (positive large coefficients .48 and .425 for Se and Ve ). It also shows that powerful actors (subject) or behaviours (verb) are seen a bit negatively (negative coefficients -.015, -.069 for Sp and Vp ). We also can incorporate the location (settings), which indicates where the event took place such as school, country, and etc., can be achieved by adding the EPA values for the setting and use the coefficient values of the subject-verb-object-location (SVOL) grammar instead of subject-verb-object (SVO). Modifiers in ACT are adjectives or attributes that modify actor or object (e.g."good friend" or "abusive father"). The impression generated from combinations of identity with modifiers can be calculated as a linear combination of the EPA values of both the identity and modifiers. c = B1 p + B2 i (2)

where p = {Pe , Pp , Pa }, i = {Ie , Ip , Ia }, and c = {Ce , Cp , Ca } are the EPA profiles for the modifier, identity, and the combination, respectively, and B1 and B2 are coefficients estimated from survey data. For example, the "father" affective rating is [1.84, 1.78, 0.02], "abusive" is [-2.23, 0.34, -0.02], and "abusive father" is [-1.51, 1.37, -0.21]. The deflection, which is defined as the discrepancy between the fundamental sentiment and the transient impression, is calculated by the squared Euclidean distance between the sentiments and impressions given the following equation. d=
i

(fi - i )2

(3)

The deflection does not indicate positive or negative emotions, but rather indicates whether or not the event met someone's expectation.

