Lexical Event Ordering with an Edge-Factored Model
Omri Abend, Shay B. Cohen and Mark Steedman School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh Edinburgh EH8 9AB, United Kingdom {oabend,scohen,steedman}@inf.ed.ac.uk

Abstract
Extensive lexical knowledge is necessary for temporal analysis and planning tasks. We address in this paper a lexical setting that allows for the straightforward incorporation of rich features and structural constraints. We explore a lexical event ordering task, namely determining the likely temporal order of events based solely on the identity of their predicates and arguments. We propose an "edgefactored" model for the task that decomposes over the edges of the event graph. We learn it using the structured perceptron. As lexical tasks require large amounts of text, we do not attempt manual annotation and instead use the textual order of events in a domain where this order is aligned with their temporal order, namely cooking recipes.

1

Introduction

Temporal relations between events are often implicit, and inferring them relies on lexical and world knowledge about the likely order of events. For instance, to execute the instruction "fry the onion," the hearer should probably obtain oil beforehand, even if not instructed so explicitly. Lexical knowledge about the likely order of events is therefore necessary for any semantic task that requires temporal reasoning or planning, such as classifying temporal relations (Mani et al., 2006; Lapata and Lascarides, 2006; Yoshikawa et al., 2009; D'Souza and Ng, 2013; Mirza and Tonelli, 2014, inter alia), textual entailment (Dagan et al., 2013) or temporal information extraction (Ling and Weld, 2010). Lexical temporal knowledge is further important for model1161

ing grammatical phenomena such as tense and aspect (Steedman, 2002). In this paper we address the task of lexical event ordering, namely predicting the ordering of events based only on the identity of the words comprising their predicates and arguments. Concretely, the task is to predict the order of an unordered set of predicate-argument structures. Predicting the likely order of event types is a step towards more intricate planning and reasoning scenarios (see §3), and is useful in itself for tasks such as conceptto-text generation (Reiter et al., 2000), or in validating the correctness of instruction sets. A related idea can be found in modeling sentence coherence (Lapata, 2003; Barzilay and Lapata, 2008, inter alia), although here we focus on lexical relations between events, rather than coherence relations between complete sentences. Compiling a resource of temporal tendencies between events can hardly be done manually, given the number and wealth of phenomena that have to be accounted for. Temporally annotated corpora, often annotated according to TimeML principles (Pustejovsky et al., 2003), are a useful resource for studying temporal relations. However, due to incurred costs, annotated corpora are too small for most lexical tasks. For instance, the TimeML annotated data used in the latest TempEval shared task contains only 100K words or so (UzZaman et al., 2013). Previous work that does not rely on manually annotated data has had some success in discovering temporal lexical relations between predicates (Chklovski and Pantel, 2004; Chambers and Jurafsky, 2008b; Talukdar et al., 2012). However, despite their appeal, these methods have mostly fo-

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1161­1171, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

