Figure 1: Tweet count per hour with #WhyIStayed (dotted) or #WhyILeft (solid) from 9/8 to 9/12. Times in EST, vertical lines mark 12 hour periods, with label corresponding to its left line. Spam removed, includes meta tweets.

2

Data

2.2 Extracting Gold Standard Labels Typically, users provided reasons for staying and leaving, with the reasons prefixed by or appended with the hashtags #WhyIStayed or #WhyILeft as in this example: #WhyIStayed because he told me no one else would love me. #WhyILeft because I gained the courage to love myself. Regular expressions matched these structures and for tweets marked by both tags, split them into multiple instances, labeled with their respective tag. If the tweet contained only one of the target hashtags, the instance was labeled with that hashtag. If the tweet contained both hashtags but did not match with any of the regular expressions, it was excluded to ensure data quality. The resulting corpus comprised 24,861 #WhyIStayed and 8,767 #WhyILeft labeled datapoints. The class imbalance may be a result of the origins of the trend rather than an indicator that more victims stay than leave. The tweet that started the trend contained only the hashtag #WhyIStayed, and media reporting on the trend tended to refer to it as the "#WhyIStayed phenomenon." As Figure 1 shows, the first #WhyILeft tweet occurred hours after the #WhyIStayed trend had taken off, and never gained as much use. By this reasoning, we concluded that an even set of data would be appropriate, and enable us to use the ratio metric in experiments discussed in this paper, as well as compare themes in the two sets. By random sampling of #WhyIStayed, a balanced set of 8,767 examples per class was obtained, resulting in a binary 50% baseline. From this set, 15% were held out as a final testset, to be considered after a tuning procedure with the remaining 85% devset.

We collected a new corpus of tweets using the Twitter and Topsy2 application programming interfaces. The corpus spans the beginning of September (the start of the trend) to the beginning of October, 2014. We fully rehydrated the tweets (to update the retweet count, etc.) at the end of the collection period. Figure 1 displays the behavior from the initial days of this trend. Due to its viral nature, the majority of tweets are from the first week of the trend's creation. 2.1 Preprocessing We removed spam tweets based on the usernames of the most prevalent spammers, as well as key spam hashtags.3 We also removed tweets related to a key controversy, in which the Twitter account for DiGiorno Pizza (ignorant of the trend's meaning) tweeted #WhyIStayed You had pizza.4 This resulted in over 57,000 unique tweets in the corpus. Many tweets in the dataset were reflections on the trend itself or contained messages of support to the users sharing their stories, for example, Not usually a fan of hashtag trends, but #WhyIStayed is incredibly powerful. #NFL #RayRice.5 These tweets, here denoted meta-tweets, were often retweeted, but they rarely contained reasons for staying or leaving (our interest), so we filtered them out by keyword.6 In section 2.3 we empirically explore the remaining instances.
For outside Twitter's history, http://topsy.com/ Such as #MTVEMA, #AppleWatch, #CMWorld. 4 Removed by keywords pizza, digiorno. 5 Illustrative tweet examples were anonymized and we purposefully attempted to minimize inclusion of sensitive content. 6 Including janay/ray rice, football, tweets, trend, video, etc.
3 2

1282

