knowledge bases are available. Another feature of our model that deserves mention is that it performs joint event coreference resolution and anaphoricity determination. Anaphoricity determination, the task of determining whether a mention is anaphoric and hence needs to be resolved, is an issue common to both entity and event coreference resolution. However, determining the anaphoricity of an event mention is arguably more difficult than determining the anaphoricity of a pronoun. The reason is that while there exist lexical and syntactic cues that can be used to reliably identify pleonastic pronouns (Bergsma and Yarowsky, 2011), the lack of such cues in event mentions makes the identification of anaphoric event mentions challenging even in a supervised manner, let alone in an unsupervised manner. Note that ignoring anaphoricity determination and having our model attempt to resolve every event mention is not a viable option, as only 24.4% of the Chinese event mentions in our evaluation corpus (ACE 2005) are anaphoric. Our decision to jointly model anaphoricity determination and event coreference resolution was inspired by the difficulty of designing a standalone system for determining the anaphoricity of event mentions.

2

Related Work

Almost all existing approaches to event coreference are developed for English. These approaches can broadly be divided into three categories. Within-document coreference is the most popularly investigated and arguably the most important event coreference task. While early work in MUC (e.g., Humphreys et al. (1997)) is limited to several scenarios, ACE takes a further step towards processing more fine-grained events. Most ACE event coreference resolvers are supervised, training a pairwise model to determine whether two event mentions are coreferent (e.g., Ahn (2006)). Improvements to this standard approach include the use of feature weighting to train a better model (McConky et al., 2012), and graph-based clustering algorithms to produce event coreference clusters (Chen and Ji, 2009; Sangeetha and Arock, 2012). Chen et al. (2011) train multiple classifiers to handle coreference between event mentions of different syntactic types (e.g., verb-noun coreference, noun-

noun coreference) on the OntoNotes corpus (Pradhan et al., 2007). However, OntoNotes is only partially annotated with event coreference links, and Chen et al. further make the simplifying assumption that event coreference chains are all and only those coreference chains that involve at least one verb. More recently, Cybulska and Vossen (2012) and Goyal et al. (2013) have performed event coreference using semantic relations (e.g., hyponymy relations extracted from WordNet) and distributional semantic information, respectively, on the Intelligence Community (IC) corpus (Hovy et al., 2013). The IC corpus, which at the time of writing is not yet publicly available, is different from the MUC and ACE corpora in that it is annotated with not only full event coreference relations but also partial event coreference relations. Partial coreference is a term coined by Hovy et al. to refer to event relations that exhibit subtle deviation from the perfect identity of events (e.g., the subset relation, the membership relation). While all of the aforementioned work addresses the full event coreference task, a two-stage approach is recently proposed by Araki et al. (2014) to identify subevent relations from the IC corpus. Cross-document coreference is first investigated by Bagga and Baldwin (1999), who represent an event mention as a vector of its context words and determine whether two event mentions are coreferent based on the cosine similarity of their vectors. Bejan and Harabagiu (2010; 2014) and Lee et al. (2012) propose nonparametric models and a joint entity and event coreference model respectively for within- and cross-document event coreference, evaluating their models on the ECB corpus. However, ECB "is annotated mainly for cross-document coreference" and many difficult cases of within-document coreference are not annotated (Liu et al., 2014). Naughton (2009) and Elkhlifi and Faiz (2009) have worked on sentence-level event coreference, where the goal is to determine whether two sentences containing event mentions are coreferent. Somewhat unfortunately, simplifying assumptions have to be made when a sentence containing multiple noncoreferent event mentions is encountered. Compared to English event coreference, there has been much less work on Chinese event coreference. SinoCoreferencer (Chen and Ng, 2014), a publiclyavailable ACE-style within-document event corefer-

1098

