39 Catherine 1 1

Mr. Gumb 44 24 6 480 Dr. Lecter 33 Chilton 45 31 16 13 Sen. Martin Clarice 377 5 1 Crawford

6

Experimental Setup

Figure 5: Social network for "The Silence of the Lambs"; edge weights correspond to absolute number of interactions between nodes.

Perceptron (MLP) and several features pertaining to the structure of the social network and the script text itself. A potential stumbling block in treating character identification as a classification task is obtaining training data, i.e., a list of main characters for each movie. We generate a gold-standard by assuming that the characters listed under Wikipedia's Cast section (or an equivalent section, e.g., Characters) are the main characters in the movie. Examples of the features we used for the classification task include the barycenter of a character (i.e., the sum of its distance to all other characters), PageRank (Page et al., 1999), an eigenvectorbased centrality measure, absolute/relative interaction weight (the sum of all interactions a character is involved in, divided by the sum of all interactions in the network), absolute/relative number of sentences uttered by a character, number of times a character is described by other characters (e.g., He is a monster or She is nice), number of times a character talks about other characters, and type-tokenratio of sentences uttered by the character (i.e., rate of unique words in a character's speech). Using these features, the MLP achieves an F1 of 79.0% on the test set. It outperforms other classification methods such as Naive Bayes or logistic regression. Using the full-feature set, the MLP also obtains performance superior to any individual measure of graph connectivity. Aside from Equation (4), lead characters also appear in Equation (19), which determines scene importance. We assume a character c  main(M ) if it is predicted by the MLP with a probability  0.5. 1072

Gold Standard Chains The development and tuning of the chain extraction model presented in Section 4 necessitates access to a gold standard of key scene chains representing the movie's most important content. Our experiments concentrated on a sample of 95 movies (comedies and thrillers) from the ScriptBase corpus (Section 3). Performing the scene selection task for such a big corpus manually would be both time consuming and costly. Instead, we used distant supervision based on Wikipedia to automatically generate a gold standard. Specifically, we assume that Wikipedia plots are representative of the most important content in a movie. Using the alignment algorithm presented in Nelken and Shieber (2006), we align script sentences to Wikipedia plot sentences and assume that scenes with at least one alignment are part of the gold chain of scenes. We obtain many-to-many alignments using features such as lemma overlap and word stem similarity. When evaluated on four movies8 (from the training set) whose content was manually aligned to Wikipedia plots, the aligner achieved a precision of .53 at a recall rate of .82 at deciding whether a scene should be aligned. Scenes are ranked according to the number of alignments they contain. When creating gold chains at different compression rates, we start with the best-ranked scenes and then successively add lower ranked ones until we reach the desired compression rate. System Comparison In our experiments we compared our scene extraction model (SceneSum) against three baselines. The first baseline was based on the minimum overlap (MinOv) of characters in consecutive scenes and corresponds closely to the diversity term in our objective. The second baseline was based on the maximum overlap (MaxOv) of characters and approximates the importance term in our objective. The third baseline selects scenes at random (averaged over 1,000 runs). Parameters for our models were tuned on the training set, weights for the terms in the objective were optimized to the following values: P = 1.0, D = 0.3, and I = 0.1. We set the restart probability of our random walker
Lambs".
8 "Cars

2", "Shrek", "Swordfish", and "The Silence of the

