MR. GARRISON SADDAM HUSSEIN

CARTMAN'S PRESIDENT MOM

BIG THING KENNY SATAN

THE MOLE

CARTMAN IKE STAN KYLE'S MOM

PRINCIPAL VICTORIA

CHEF KYLE GREGORY

PHILLIP WENDY CANADIAN MINISTER OF MOVIES TERRANCE

MR. MACKEY

Figure 4: Induced signed social network from the film South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut. Blue solid edges are in the V-cluster, red dashed edges are in the T-cluster.

of the sentiment expressed across it, finding that the resulting networks cohere with the predictions of structural balance theory; similar results are obtained by West et al. (2014), who are thereby able to predict the signs of unlabeled ties. Both papers leverage the relatively mature technology of sentiment analysis, and are restricted to edge labels that reflect sentiment. The unsupervised approach presented here could in principle be applied to lexicons of sentiment terms, rather than address terms, but we leave this for future work. The issue of address formality in English was considered by Faruqui and Pad´ o (2011), who show that annotators can label the formality of the second person pronoun with agreement of 70%. They use these annotations to train a supervised classifier, obtaining comparable accuracy. If no labeled data is available, annotations can be projected from languages where the T/V distinction is marked in the morphology of the second person pronoun, such as German (Faruqui and Pad´ o, 2012). Our work shows that it is possible to detect formality without labeled data or parallel text, by leveraging regularities across network structures; however, this requires the assumption that the level of formality for a pair of individuals is constant over time. The combination of our unsupervised approach with annotation projection might yield models that attain higher performance while capturing change in formality over time. 1624

More broadly, a number of recent papers have proposed to detect various types of social relationships from linguistic content. Of particular interest are power relationships, which can be induced from n-gram features (Bramsen et al., 2011; Prabhakaran et al., 2012) and from coordination, where one participant's linguistic style is asymmetrically affected by the other (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al., 2012). Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al. (2013) describe an approach to recognizing politeness in text, lexical and syntactic features motivated by politeness theory. Anand et al. (2011) detect "rebuttals" in argumentative dialogues, and Hasan and Ng (2013) employ extra-linguistic structural features to improve the detection of stances in such debates. In all of these cases, labeled data is used to train supervised model; our work shows that social structural regularities are powerful enough to support accurate induction of social relationships (and their linguistic correlates) without labeled data.

8

Conclusion

This paper represents a step towards unifying theoretical models of signed social network structures with linguistic accounts of the expression of social relationships in dialogue. By fusing these two phenomena into a joint probabilistic model, we can induce edge types with robust linguistic signatures and coherent structural properties. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on movie dialogues, where it induces symmetric T/V networks and their linguistic signatures without supervision. Future work should evaluate the capability of this approach to induce asymmetric signed networks, the utility of partial or distant supervision, and applications to non-fictional dialogues.

Acknowledgments
We thank the reviewers for their detailed feedback. The paper benefitted from conversations with Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Chris Dyer, Johan Ugander, and Bob West. This research was supported by an award from the Air Force Office of Scientific Research, and by Google, through a Focused Research Award for Computational Journalism.

