the circumstances of their recovery which was, in many cases, looting; 4) new tablets are still being uncovered. More detail on our Decision List Co-Train method (Collins and Singer, 1999) can be found in Section 3. In the process of evaluating our NER sys-

Figure 1: Tablet with ID of P105955 from CDLI.

tem, we noticed that a major inconsistency between our result and the lemmata in CDLI lies in the annotation of personal names with missing signs in damaged tablets. For example, "szu-[x]-lum" is not labeled as a name in the lemmata, but our system does so with a high confidence score. As shown this word contains a damaged sign (indicated by "[x]"). Inconsistencies of this kind account for around 50% of the total false positives in our result. With the help of the Sumerologist at our home university, around 40% of such damaged occurrences have been easily verified as personal names. This suggests that the original lemmatization is performed by a more critical and conservative approach. Our work offers a promising automation tool for the annotation task on this corpus by making good recommendations on name candidates to the annotators.

rian word are written joined together with dashes. As there is no concept of upper- or lowercase in cuneiform writing, signs in transliterations typically occur in lowercase. However, signs rendered in uppercase do occur when the phonetic equivalent of the sign is unclear, tentative or fairly new (Sahala, 2012). One important property of Cuneiform is a high degree of homophony (referred to in the literature on Cuneiform as `polyvalence'). This phenomenon is conventionally handled by numerical subscripts. For example, "du" means "to go", "du3 " means "to build" (Tablan et al., 2006). Royal epithets notwithstanding, Sumerian personal names are exclusively comprised of a single word, almost always consisting of at least two signs. In cases where disambiguation is required, a patronymic may added (for example, szu-esz4-tar2 dumu zu-zu, "Su-Estar, son of Zuzu"). This disambiguation is frequent in practice due to the relatively shallow pool of personal names used (Limet, 1960). In the lemmatization information exposed by CDLI that we make use of in our NER task, when the word is a noun or verbal form, the two types of information included in the lemmata are 1) the citation form, rendered as the Sumerian stem; 2) the guide word, which functions as a disambiguator and is generally the English translation of the stem; otherwise, the lemma contains only the part of speech, as is the case with proper names and numbers. For example, in the following excerpt (CDLI No: P100032), wherein text is presented with interlinear lemmata (English translation: Egi-zi-mah received 2 oxen from runner.), we see both types of lemmatization.
1. 2(disz) gu4 #lem: n; gud[ox] 2. ki kas4-ta #lem: ki[place]; kasz[runner] 3. egi-zi-mah i3-dab5 #lem: PN; dab[seize]

2

CDLI and the Annotations

The CDLI is a collaborative project with cuneiform text capturing and processing efforts underway in North America, Europe and the Middle East. It aims to provide an open access to electronic documentation of ancient cuneiform, consisting of texts, images, transliterations and glossaries of 3500 years of human history. Adhering to the open-source policy, any contribution to the collection by providing electronic catalogues, transliterations, or images of cuneiform artifacts is welcomed (CDLIwiki, 2014). When represented in Roman script in transliterations, the syllable signs that make up a Sume1447

On line 3, the verbal form i3-dab5, indicating the receipt of an animate object, is lemmatized with the citation form dab, which is the Sumerian root for this form, and guide word "seize", the best English translation of the citation form. On lines 1 and 3, we have a number lemmatized with the part of speech n and the personal name egi-zi-mah with the part of speech PN, respectively. These annotated

