Boydstun et al., 2013). On the one hand, the performance of the Lexical feature set suggests that topic modeling, especially including certain n-grams, may prove an effective approach. That said, Boydstun et al. are more interested in determining which frames are at work in a text as a whole, whereas this paper focuses more on determining where within a text frames are invoked. Thus, different computational approaches and features may prove effective for each task. Interestingly, the grammatical structure feature set is not one of the top performers. Given our expectations, including the importance that pilot study participants placed on structural relationships within the sentence, the role of grammatical construction both in metaphors (Turney et al., 2011) in framing more broadly (Fairclough, 1999), and prior computational work on implicit sentiment (Greene and Resnik, 2009), this result appears fairly surprising. It could be that grammatical structure alone is not sufficient to identify framing, but even combining grammatical structure with other features does not significnatly improve performance. Perhaps, then, grammatical construction matters less than the specific words chosen. On the other hand, lexical features may be topic-specific, such that even obtaining two samples six months apart still resulted in the same buzzwords invoking framing. Future work should examine more closely the role that structural features play, or perhaps do not play, in invoking framing. This point also draws attention to some practical implications. Performing a full grammatical parse can be computationally intensive. If using other features that do not require a full parse can achieve comparable performance, then perhaps real time applications, such as analyzing live speeches as they happen, could employ only features that are relatively quicker and easier to extract. Finally, we note that the annotated data analyzed here come from political news stories in US mainstream media. Since these sources ostensibly strive for impartiality, framing in these data may occur implicitly or unconsciously. Future work should compare these results with similar analyses of texts containing more explicit framing, such as opinion columns, campaign speeches, or political advertisements. Differences in how framing is identified may 1480

give important clues to how framing operates in different contexts. Similarly informative insights could be gained by comparing lay-persons' annotations with framing experts'.

8

Conclusion

"Facts have no intrinsic meaning. They take on their meaning by being embedded in a frame" (Gamson, 1989, p. 157). Given framing's pervasive influence, this paper argues for the importance of computational techniques that can identify and draw attention to the language of framing. Doing so can help support frame reflection (Sch¨ on and Rein, 1994) and, thereby, deeper understanding of and engagement with political issues. This paper both develops a computational approach to identifying framing and tests how well different linguistic features indicate frame-invoking language. Results suggest grammatical structure alone as the most important indicator of framing. However, other data less computationally demanding to extract, such as lexical features (e.g., tokens and n-grams), can prove almost as effective. In sum, the paper makes two main contributions. First, it provides a technical contribution by identifying a task of importance and demonstrating a technique that performs close to as well as humans. Second, the paper makes a theoretical contribution, helping to provide "guidelines on how to identify [] a frame in communication" (Chong and Druckman, 2007, p. 106). The data set of annotations released with this paper may also prove a valuable resource for future analyses of framing.

Acknowledgments
This material is based upon work supported by the NSF under Grant No. IIS-1110932. Thanks to the Turker and student annotators, to Andrea Lin for research assistance, and to Cristian DanescuNiculescu-Mizil and to Peter Turney for sharing technical resources.

References
Eric P. S. Baumer, Francesca Polletta, Nicole Pierski, and Geri K. Gay. 2015. A Simple Intervention to Reduce Framing Effects in Perceptions of Global Climate Change. Environmental Communication (to appear).

