tive baseline, based on Greedy String Tiling (GST) (Wise, 1996). ADW sees large performance improvements in the OOV and slang words when using C ROWN instead of WordNet, which are both statistically significant at p<0.01. The overall improvement of ADW would place it as the fifth best system in this comparison type of Task 3. The performance on regular in-WordNet and OOV lemmas is approximately equal, indicating the high accuracy of OOV hypernym attachment in C ROWN. Notably, on OOV and Slang, the unsupervised ADW, when coupled with the additional information in C ROWN , produces competitive results with the best performing system, which is a multi-feature supervised system utilizing extensive external dictionaries and distributional methods.

5

Related Work

ber of synsets in WordNet and includes many technical and slang terms, as well as non-standard lexicalizations. C ROWN is released in the same format as WordNet5 and therefore is fully compatible with all existing WordNetbased tools and libraries. Furthermore, the software for building C ROWN has been opened-sourced and will be updated with future versions. In two experiments we demonstrated that the C ROWN construction process is accurate and that the resulting resource has a real benefit to WordNet-based applications. Immediate future work will add support for including new lemmas as synonyms in existing synsets and linking newly-created synsets with all appropriate types of WordNet semantic relationship. Longer-term future work will pursue more sophisticated methods for taxonomy enrichment to improve the quality of integrated content and will aim to integrate additional dictionaries, with a special emphasis on adding domain-specific terminology.

Most related is the work of Poprat et al. (2008), who attempted to automatically build an extension of WordNet with biomedical terminology; however, they were unsuccessful in constructing the resource. Other work has attempted to leverage distributional similarity techniques (Snow et al., 2006) or exploit the structured information in Wikipedia (Ruiz-Casado et al., 2005; Toral et al., 2008; Ponzetto and Navigli, 2009; Yamada et al., 2011) in order to extend WordNet with new synsets. However, structurebased approaches are limited only to the concepts appearing in Wikipedia article titles, which almost always correspond to noun concepts. Distributional and probabilistic approaches are also limited to OOV terms for which it is possible to gather enough statistics. As Wiktionary contains all parts of speech and our method is independent of word frequency, neither limitation applies to this work. Other related work has attempted to tap resources such as Wikipedia for automatically constructing new ontologies (Suchanek et al., 2007; Dandala et al., 2012; Moro and Navigli, 2012; Meyer and Gurevych, 2012), extending existing ones through either alignment-based methods (Matuschek and Gurevych, 2013; Pilehvar and Navigli, 2014) or inferring the positions of new senses by their shared attributes which are extracted from text (Reisinger and Pas ¸ca, 2009). Extension and alignment approaches based on Wikipedia are limited mainly to noun concepts in Wikipedia; furthermore, these techniques cannot be directly applied to Wiktionary because its lack of taxonomic structure would prevent adding most OOV data to the existing WordNet taxonomy.

References
Eneko Agirre, Oier Lopez de Lacalle, and Aitor Soroa. 2014. Random walks for knowledge-based Word Sense Disambiguation. Computational Linguistics, 40(1):57­84. Stefano Baccianella, Andrea Esuli, and Fabrizio Sebastiani. 2010. SentiWordNet 3.0: An enhanced lexical resource for sentiment analysis and opinion mining. In Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC), volume 10, pages 2200­2204, Valletta, Malta. Daniel B¨ ar, Torsten Zesch, and Iryna Gurevych. 2013. DKPro Similarity: An open source framework for text similarity. In Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pages 121­126, Sofia, Bulgaria. Bharath Dandala, Rada Mihalcea, and Razvan Bunescu. 2012. Towards building a multilingual semantic network: Identifying interlingual links in wikipedia. In Proceedings of the First Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), pages 30­37, Montreal, Canada. Christiane Fellbaum, editor. 1998. WordNet: An Electronic Database. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA. Adriano Ferraresi, Eros Zanchetta, Marco Baroni, and Silvia Bernardini. 2008. Introducing and evaluating ukWaC, a very large web-derived corpus of English. In Proceedings of the 4th Web as Corpus Workshop (WAC-4), Morocco. Felix Hill, Roi Reichart, and Anna Korhonen. 2014. Simlex999: Evaluating semantic models with (genuine) similarity estimation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1408.3456. David Jurgens, Mohammad Taher Pilehvar, and Roberto Navigli. 2014. Semeval-2014 task 3: Cross-level semantic similarity. In Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval-2014), pages 17­26, Dublin, Ireland.
5 Both the software for creating C ROWN and the data itself are available at https://github.com/davidjurgens/crown.

6

Conclusion

This work has introduced C ROWN version 1.0, a new extension of WordNet that merges sense definitions from Wiktionary to add new hypernym and antonym relations. The resulting taxonomy has more than doubled the num-

1463

