Language Italian Chinese Portuguese

Lexical resources English-Italian FreeLang wordlist (33,700 entries); Chinese/English dictionary (5,000 entries); LDC Eng-Chi bilingual wordlist (110,800 entries) Portuguese/English dictionary (5,000 entries); English-Portuguese (Brazilian version) FreeLang wordlist (20,980 entries)

Table 1: Bilingual lexical resources used.

The semantic lexicon translation process mainly involves transferring semantic tags from an English lexeme to its translation equivalent/s. For instance, given a pair of word/MWE translations, one of which is English, if the English headword is found in the English semantic lexicon, its semantic categories are passed to its translation equivalents. For the high-quality formal dictionaries, this approach worked very well in our experiment, thanks to the accurate translations and explicit part-ofspeech (POS) information provided by such resources. With the bilingual word lists from FreeLang and LDC, however, this translation process was not straightforward. Firstly, most of the entries of the word lists do not contain any POS information. To avoid losing any potentially relevant semantic tags, we have to consider all possible POS categories of each English headword, and the same applies to their translation equivalents. For example, the English headword "advance" has four possible C7 POS tags (JJ-adjective, NN1-singular noun, VV0-base form of verb, VVI-infinitive verb) in the English semantic lexicon with different semantic categories including N4 (linear order), A9- (giving), M1 (moving, coming and going), A5.1 (evaluation: good/bad), A2.1 (affect: modify, change), Q2.2 (speech acts), S8+ (helping), Q2.1 (speech etc: communicative), although with some overlap, as shown below (in each line, the first code is a POS tag and the following ones denote USAS semantic categories1):
advance advance advance advance JJ N4 NN1 A9- M1 A5.1+/A2.1 VV0 M1 A9- Q2.2 A5.1+/A2.1 VVI M1 S8+ A9- A5.1+/A2.1 Q2.1

In such a case, for each of the possible translation equivalents of the word "advance", these four types of POS tags and their corresponding semantic tags need to be assigned to their corresponding
1

For definitions of the POS and semantic tags, see websites http://ucrel.lancs.ac.uk/claws7tags.html and http://ucrel.lancs.ac.uk/usas/USASSemanticTagset.pdf

translations in the target languages. Obviously this would lead to passing wrong and redundant semantic tags to the translation equivalents. Nevertheless, we have to accept such noise in order to increase the chances of obtaining correct semantic tags, as it would be easier to remove redundant/incorrect semantic tags than searching for missing ones in the manual improvement stage. Another major challenge in the translation process was the mapping between the POS tagsets employed by different lexical resources and tools. Even for the same language, different lexicons and tools can employ different POS tagsets. For example, different Portuguese POS tagsets are used by the Portuguese frequency dictionary and the POS TreeTagger (Schmid, 1994). To bridge between the different POS tagsets, we designed a simplified common POS tagset for each language, into which other tags can be mapped. For example, the Portuguese POS tagset was simplified into 12 categories "adj, adv, det, noun, pnoun, verb, pron, conj, intj, prep, num, punc". Because a single semantic category tends to span similar POS categories, e.g. present/past/progressive tense of verbs, simplification of POS tagsets generally does not affect semantic annotation accuracy. After applying all the resources and automatic mapping described above, we obtained approximately 38,720, 83,600 and 15,700 semantic lexicon entries for Italian, Chinese and Portuguese respectively. Our initial evaluation involved direct manual checking of these bootstrapped lexicons. For example, 5,622 Italian MWE entries and 1,763 Italian single word entries have been manually corrected. For the Chinese lexicon, the most frequent words were identified using the Chinese word frequency list of Internet Corpus (Sharoff, 2006), and the semantic tags of about 560 entries related to the most frequent words were manually corrected. For Portuguese, about 900 lexicon entries were manually checked. The manual improvement mainly involves three processes: a) filtering lexicon entries having wrong POS tags, b) selecting correct semantic tags from candidates, c) adding missing semantic tags. The amount of effort needed depends on the quality of the bilingual dictionaries. For example, from the automatically generated 900 Chinese entries containing the most frequent (also highly ambiguous) words, 505 entries were selected after the POS filtering. In addition, 145 of them were improved by

1270

