The protagonist of one of this man's works erects a sign claiming that that story's title figure will fly to heaven from a pond. Identify this author of Dragon: the Old Potter's Tale Humans solve cases like these using a vast amount of external knowledge, but existing models lack information about worlds (both real and imaginary) and thus cannot confidently mark these coreferences. We discuss coreference work that incorporates external resources such as Wikipedia in the next section; our aim is to provide a dataset that benefits more from this type of information than newswire does.

nary decision for each mention pair, a method that had been very popular before the last five years (Soon et al., 2001; Bengtson and Roth, 2008; Stoyanov et al., 2010). Recently, better results have been obtained with mention-ranking systems (Luo et al., 2004; Haghighi and Klein, 2010; Durrett and Klein, 2013; Bj¨ orkelund and Kuhn, 2014). However, on quiz bowl data, our experiments show that binary classifiers can outperform mention-ranking approaches.

7

Embracing Harder Coreference

6

Related Work

We describe relevant data-driven coreference research in this section, all of which train and evaluate on only newswire text. Despite efforts to build better rule-based (Luo et al., 2004) or hybrid statistical systems (Haghighi and Klein, 2010), data-driven systems currently dominate the field. The 2012 CoNLL shared task led to improved data-driven systems for coreference resolution that finally outperformed both the Stanford system (Lee et al., 2011) and the ims system (Bj¨ orkelund and Farkas, 2012), the latter of which was the best available publiclyavailable English coreference system at the time. The recently-released Berkeley coreference system (Durrett and Klein, 2013) is especially striking: it performs well with only a sparse set of carefully-chosen features. Semantic knowledge sources--especially WordNet (Miller, 1995) and Wikipedia--have been used in coreference engines (Ponzetto and Strube, 2006). A system by Ratinov and Roth (2012) demonstrates good performance by using Wikipedia knowledge to strengthen a multi-pass rule based system. In a more recent work, Durrett and Klein (2014) outperform previous systems by building a joint model that matches mentions to Wikipedia entities while doing named entity resolution and coreference resolution simultaneously. We take a different approach by approximating semantic and world knowledge through our word embedding features. Our simple classifier yields a bi1116

This paper introduces a new, naturally-occuring coreference dataset that is easy to annotate but difficult for computers to solve. We show that active learning allows us to create a dataset that is rich in different types of coreference. We develop an end-to-end coreference system using very simple mention detection and pairwise classification models that outperforms traditional systems on our dataset. The next challenge is to incorporate the necessary world knowledge to solve these harder coreference problems. Systems should be able to distinguish who is likely to marry whom, identify the titles of books from roundabout descriptions, and intuit family relationships from raw text. These are coreference challenges not found in newswire but that do exist in the real world. Unlike other ai-complete problems like machine translation, coreference in challenging datasets is easy to both annotate and evaluate. This paper provides the necessary building blocks to create and evaluate those systems.

8

Acknowledgments

We thank the anonymous reviewers for their insightful comments. We also thank Dr. Hal Daum´ e III and the members of the "feetthinking" research group for their advice and assistance. We also thank Dr. Yuening Hu and Mossaab Bagdouri for their help in reviewing the draft of this paper. This work was supported by nsf Grant IIS-1320538. Boyd-Graber is also supported by nsf Grants CCF-1018625 and NCSE-1422492. Any opinions, findings, results, or recommendations expressed here are of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the view of the sponsor.

