Testing and Comparing Computational Approaches for Identifying the Language of Framing in Political News
Eric P. S. Baumer1,2 , Elisha Elovic2 , Ying "Crystal" Qin2 , Francesca Polletta3 , Geri K. Gay1,2 1 2 3 Communication Information Science Sociology Cornell University University of California, Irvine Ithaca, NY, USA Irvine, CA, USA {ericpsb, epe9, yq37, gkg1}@cornell.edu, polletta@uci.edu

Abstract
The subconscious influence of framing on perceptions of political issues is well-document in political science and communication research. A related line of work suggests that drawing attention to framing may help reduce such framing effects by enabling frame reflection, critical examination of the framing underlying an issue. However, definite guidance on how to identify framing does not exist. This paper presents a technique for identifying frame-invoking language. The paper first describes a human subjects pilot study that explores how individuals identify framing and informs the design of our technique. The paper then describes our data collection and annotation approach. Results show that the best performing classifiers achieve performance comparable to that of human annotators, and they indicate which aspects of language most pertain to framing. Both technical and theoretical implications are discussed.

"global warming" vs. "climate change" (Schuldt et al., 2011), "gay civil unions" vs. "homosexual marriage" (Price et al., 2005), "not allow" vs. "forbid" (Rugg, 1941) ­ can significantly impact opinions. A related but less explored line of research suggests that "frame reflection" (Sch¨ on and Rein, 1994), i.e., critical thinking about an issue's framing, can play an important role in understanding issues and reconciling conflicts. Indeed, some recent work suggests that drawing attention to framing may help mitigate framing effects (Baumer et al., 2015). However, such reflection is no mean feat. "Various observers have noted how subtly and unconsciously [framing] operates" (Gamson and Modigliani, 1989, p. 7), making it difficult to acknowledge that an issue is being framed at all, let alone examine that framing critically or consider alternatives. Furthermore, "straightforward guidelines on how to identify [...] a frame in communication do not exist" (Chong and Druckman, 2007, p. 106). To address this challenge, this paper compares different computational approaches for identifying the language of framing, specifically in political news coverage. The best performing classifiers achieve accuracy around 61% and F1 scores of 0.45 to 0.46, outperforming a dummy baseline and approaching or matching human performance of 73% accuracy and F1 score of 0.46. This work makes two key contributions. First, compares different techniques for identifying language invoking conceptual framing, a novel yet important task. Second, it offers evidence about what language is perceived as related to framing, helping to addressing the gap identified by (Chong and Druckman, 2007).

1

Introduction

Contentious political issues are rarely understood per se but rather through the lens of framing. Terms such as "tax relief," "death taxes," "racial quotas," "death panels," and others have famously rallied citizens around fairly complex causes. More generally, research has shown that the way an issue is framed (Entman, 1993) ­ how a problem is defined, to what other problems and people it is linked, etc. ­ has a significant impact on both perceptions of the issue and prescriptions for action. A variety of work has shown that minor changes in language ­ 1472

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1472­1482, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

