project, is achieved as follows: the new daily amount of specific data is added to the development set, and new monolingual and bilingual data selections are performed with it. The new SMT system built on these selected data is then optimized on the new development set. When performing project adaptation of an SMT system, we assume that the documents of a project are quite close and then, adapting the SMT system using the n-th days could be helpful to translate the n + 1 day. However, we need to be careful to not overfit to a particular day of the project. This is particularly risky since the daily amount of specific data is relatively small (about 3k words). Therefore, we chose to add three times the daily data to our existing in-domain development set. This factor of three was empirically determined during prior lab tests. Also, all the previous days are used, i.e. when we adapt after three days of work, we used all the data from the first three days. 4.3 Continuous Space Language Model Over the last years, there has been significantly increasing interest in using neural networks in SMT. As mentioned above, we used this technology into our project adaptation scheme. Fully integrated to the MT systems, it was used by our three SMT systems dedicated to the translators. A continuous space LM (CSLM) (Schwenk, 2010; Schwenk, 2013) is trained on the same data than a classical n-gram back-off LM and is used to rescore the n-best list. In our case, and after each day of work, the daily generated data (3k words) is used to perform the adaptation of the CSLM by continuing its training (see (Ter-Sarkisov et al., 2014) for details). An important advantage of this approach is that the adaptation can be performed in a couple of minutes.

5

Experimental results and discussion

All the results presented in this section have been extracted from the edit logs provided by the M ATE C AT CAT tool. 5.1 Post-editing effort In terms of post-editing effort, the results for each translator according to several SMT systems are shown in Table 1. Several TER scores are computed 1003

between the SMT system output and various sets of references. This score reveals the number of edits performed by the translator in order to obtain a suitable translation. The first column indicates the day of the experiment. The second column represents three SMT systems, namely: the baseline system adapted to the domain (DA), the same system with a CSLM (DA+CSLM) and the project adapted system (all models were updated, including the CSLM) noted "PA+CSLM-adapt". The third, fourth and fifth columns represent respectively the TER scores for the three translators. The first score is calculated using the reference produced by the translator himself. It could be considered as HTER (Snover et al., 2009). The second score (in parenthesis) is calculated using the three references produced by the translators. The third score (in brackets) is calculated according to an official "generic" reference provided by the European Commission. By these additional results, we aim to assess whether their is a tendency of the systems to adapt strongly to the particular style of one translator, or whether they still perform well with respect to independent references. On day 1, only the DA and DA+CSLM systems are presented since the project adaptation can only start after the first working day. First of all, we can notice that the use of CSLM significantly decrease the TER scores for all translators. We can also remark that the third translator has a much higher TER than the two other translators during the first two days. Then, the system seems to learn his style and the TER reaches a comparable level at day 3. We can observe that project adaptation always lowers the TER with respect to the individual reference. The only exception can be observed for the first translator for days 2, 4 and 5. However, the project-adapted system is better or identical in most cases when multiple references are used. It is also interesting to note that our adaptation procedure improves the postediting effort with respect to the independent reference translation in nine out of twelve cases. Overall, it can be clearly seen that the adaptation scheme is very effective. The difference between the baseline system (DA+CSLM) and the fully adapted system (PA+CSLM-adapt) reaches 9 TER points in some conditions. A quite similar tendency can be observed when

