ment is almost a full BLEU point (0.91); in Experiment 2 the improvement is even larger (1.13), even though the baseline performance is stronger. Both results are statistically significant at p = 0.05, using a paired bootstrap resampling test. The combination of morph-tagged data and the more advanced modeling options (sparse features, NNJM) in this system seem to be beneficial. Improved translation performance may also be captured by the four reference translations as opposed to one in Eval set 1. In order to assess the added computation cost System Baseline Morph tags no NNJM 34.38 35.29 with NNJM 36.17 37.30

Table 3: BLEU on Eval set 2 using dialog system's SMT engine.

of our procedure we computed the decoding speed of the MT component in the dialog system for both the baseline and the morpho-tag systems. In the baseline MT system (with NNJM) without morphotags, decoding takes 0.01572 seconds per word or 0.15408 seconds per sentence ­ these numbers were obtained on a Dell Precision M4800 Laptop with a quad-core Intel i7-4930MX Processor and 32GB of RAM. Morpho-tagging only adds 0.00031 seconds per word or 0.0024 seconds per sentence. Thus, our procedure is extremely efficient. An analysis of the remaining morphological translation errors not captured by our approach showed that in about 34% of all cases these were due to part-of-speech tagging or parser errors, i.e. verbs were mistagged as nouns rather than verbs and thus did not receive any morphological tags, or the parser hypothesized wrong dependency relations. In 53% of the cases the problem is the lack of more extensive discourse or contextual knowledge. This includes constructions where there is no overt subject for a verb in the current utterance, and the appropriate underlying subject must be inferred from the preceding discourse or from knowledge of the situational context. This is an instance of the more general problem of control (see e.g.,(Landau, 2013) for an overview of research in this area). It is exemplified by cases such as the following: 1. The first step is to make sure that all personnel 999

are in your debrief. Here, the underlying subject of "to make sure" could be a range of different candidates (I, you, we, etc.) and must be inferred from context. 2. I can provide up to one platoon to help you guys cordon off the area. In this case the statistical parser identified I as the subject of help, but platoon is more likely to be the controller and was in fact identified as the underlying subject by the annotator. Such cases could potentially be resolved during the parsing step by integrating semantic information, e.g. as in (Bansal et al., 2014). However, initial investigations with semantic features in the Macaon parser resulted in a significant slow-down of the parser. In other cases, more sophisticated modeling of the entities and their relationships in the situational context will be required. This clearly is an area for future study. Finally, in 13% of the cases, mistranslations are caused by a mismatch of number features across languages (e.g. number features for nouns such as family or people).

7

Conclusion

We have shown that significant gains in BLEU and verbal inflection accuracy in speech-to-speech translation for English-IA can be achieved by incorporating morphological tags derived from dependency parse information in the source language. The proposed method is fast, low-resource, and can easily be incorporated into a real-time dialog system. It adds negligible computational cost and does not require any target-language specific annotation tools. Possible areas for future study include the use of discourse or and other contextual information to determine morphological agreement, application to other languages pairs/morphological agreement types, and learning the annotation rules from data. Acknowledgments This study was funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) under contract HR0011-12-C-0016 - subcontract 19-000234.

References
M. Bansal, K. Gimpel, and K. Livescu. 2014. Tailoring continuous word representations for dependency parsing. In Proc. of ACL. B. Bohnet. 2010. Very high accuracy and fast depen-

