is much more varied in topic, genre, and publication source. This paper addresses adding eTarget annotations to the MPQA corpus; we believe that the result will be a valuable new resource for the community.

2

From MPQA 2.0 to MPQA 3.0

To create MPQA 3.0, entity-target and event-target (eTarget) annotations are added to the MPQA 2.0 annotations.3 The MPQA annotations consist of private states, which are states of sources holding attitudes toward targets. In the MPQA 2.0 annotations, the top-level annotations are direct subjective (DS) and objective speech event annotations. DS annotations are for private states, and objective speech event annotations are for objective statements attributed to a source. An important property of sources is that they are nested, reflecting the fact that private states and speech events are often embedded in one another. As shown in Figure 1, one DS may contain links to multiple attitude annotations, meaning that all of the attitudes share the same nested source. The attitudes differ from one another in their attitude types, polarities, and/or targets. There are several types of attitudes included in MPQA 2.0 (Wilson, 2007; Somasundaran et al., 2007), including sentiment and arguing. This work focuses on sentiments, which are defined in (Wilson, 2007) as positive and negative evaluations, emotions, and judgements. MPQA 2.0 also contains expressive subjective element (ESE) annotations, which pinpoint specific expressions used to express subjectivity (Wiebe et al., 2005). An ESE also has a nested-source annotation. Since we focus on sentiments, we only consider ESEs whose polarity is positive or negative (excluding those marked neutral). The target-span annotations in MPQA 2.0 are linked to from the attitudes. More than one target may be linked to from an attitude, but most attitudes have only one target. The MPQA 2.0 annotators identified the main/most important target(s) they perceive in the sentence. If there is no target, the target-span annotation is "none". However, there are many other eTargets to be identified. First, while ESE annotations have nested sources, they do not have any target annotations. Second, there are many
3

Figure 1: Structure in MPQA 3.0.

more targets that may be marked than the major ones identified in MPQA 2.0. In Figure 1, the eTargets are what we add in MPQA 3.0. We identify the blue (orange) eTargets that are in the span of a blue (orange) target in MPQA 2.0. We also identify the green eTargets that are not in the scope of any target. Since our priority was to add eTargets to sentiments, no eTargets have yet been added to objective speech events, as shown in Figure 1. To create MPQA 3.0, the corpus is first parsed, and potential eTarget annotations are automatically created from the heads of NPs and VPs. The annotators then consider each sentiment attitude and each polar ESE, and decide for each which eTargets to add. By adding eTargets to the existing annotations, the information in MPQA 2.0 is retained. Before presenting the scheme, we first give some examples. 2.1 Examples

Available at http://mpqa.cs.pitt.edu

For each example, a subset of the annotations are shown. The phrase in blue is an attitude span, the phrase in red is a target span, the tokens in yellow are the eTargets which are newly annotated in MPQA 3.0. The underlined phrases are ESE spans. Each example is followed by the MPQA structure of the annotations. In Ex(1), a negative attitude is shown, issued the fatwa against. The source is the Imam. The target is the event Rushdie insulting the Prophet. However, the assertion that the Imam is negative toward the insult event is within the scope of this article. This is captured by an objective speech event annotation (not shown) whose target span includes the insult event, and whose source is the writer (w). Thus, the complete interpretation of this negative attitude is, according to the writer, the Imam is negative to-

1324

