References
Amit Bagga and Breck Baldwin. 1998. Algorithms for scoring coreference chains. In International Language Resources and Evaluation. Citeseer. Eric Bengtson and Dan Roth. 2008. Understanding the value of features for coreference resolution. In Proceedings of Emperical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics. Anders Bj¨ orkelund and Rich´ ard Farkas. 2012. Datadriven multilingual coreference resolution using resolver stacking. In Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning. Anders Bj¨ orkelund and Jonas Kuhn. 2014. Learning structured perceptrons for coreference resolution with latent antecedents and non-local features. In Proceedings of the Association for Computational Linguistics. A. Boyd, P. Stewart, and R. Alexander. 2008. Broadcast Journalism: Techniques of Radio and Television News. Taylor & Francis. Jordan Boyd-Graber, Brianna Satinoff, He He, and Hal Daume III. 2012. Besting the quiz master: Crowdsourcing incremental classification games. In Proceedings of Emperical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Marie-Catherine De Marneffe, Bill MacCartney, Christopher D Manning, et al. 2006. Generating typed dependency parses from phrase structure parses. In International Language Resources and Evaluation. George R Doddington, Alexis Mitchell, Mark A Przybocki, Lance A Ramshaw, Stephanie Strassel, and Ralph M Weischedel. 2004. The automatic content extraction (ACE) program-tasks, data, and evaluation. In International Language Resources and Evaluation. Greg Durrett and Dan Klein. 2013. Easy victories and uphill battles in coreference resolution. In Proceedings of Emperical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Greg Durrett and Dan Klein. 2014. A joint model for entity analysis: Coreference, typing, and linking. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Eraldo Rezende Fernandes, C´ icero Nogueira Dos Santos, and Ruy Luiz Milidi´ u. 2012. Latent structure perceptron with feature induction for unrestricted coreference resolution. In Proceedings of Emperical Methods in Natural Language Processing. N. Goldstein and A. Press. 2004. The Associated Press Stylebook and Briefing on Media Law. Asso-

ciated Press Stylebook and Briefing on Media Law. Basic Books. Aria Haghighi and Dan Klein. 2010. Coreference resolution in a modular, entity-centered model. In Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Eduard Hovy, Mitchell Marcus, Martha Palmer, Lance Ramshaw, and Ralph Weischedel. 2006. Ontonotes: the 90% solution. In Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Mohit Iyyer, Jordan Boyd-Graber, Leonardo Claudino, Richard Socher, and Hal Daum´ e III. 2014. A neural network for factoid question answering over paragraphs. In Proceedings of Emperical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Jonathan K Kummerfeld, Mohit Bansal, David Burkett, and Dan Klein. 2011. Mention detection: heuristics for the ontonotes annotations. In Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning. John Lafferty, Andrew McCallum, and Fernando CN Pereira. 2001. Conditional random fields: Probabilistic models for segmenting and labeling sequence data. Florian Laws, Florian Heimerl, and Hinrich Sch¨ utze. 2012. Active learning for coreference resolution. In Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Heeyoung Lee, Yves Peirsman, Angel Chang, Nathanael Chambers, Mihai Surdeanu, and Dan Jurafsky. 2011. Stanford's multi-pass sieve coreference resolution system at the conll-2011 shared task. In Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning. Xiaoqiang Luo, Abe Ittycheriah, Hongyan Jing, Nanda Kambhatla, and Salim Roukos. 2004. A mention-synchronous coreference resolution algorithm based on the bell tree. In Proceedings of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Xiaoqiang Luo. 2005. On coreference resolution performance metrics. In Proceedings of Emperical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Andrew Kachites McCallum. 2002. Mallet: A machine learning for language toolkit. http://mallet.cs.umass.edu. Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeffrey Dean. 2013. Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space. arXiv preprint arXiv:1301.3781. Timothy A Miller, Dmitriy Dligach, and Guergana K Savova. 2012. Active learning for coreference resolution. In Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop on

1117

