greater amounts of contextual information, the predictability of linguistic material based on context, I (Xi |Ci , Li ), must go up. Therefore, they predicted that H (Xi |Li ) should also increase, so as to maintain a constant total amount of information. Genzel and Charniak then approximated H (Xi |Li ) using a number of methods and showed that it did increase systematically in documents. Later work showed that this increase was strongest within paragraphs and was general across document types (Genzel and Charniak, 2003) and languages (Qian and Jaeger, 2012). This work, however, did not attempt to measure shared context (and its influence on message expectations) directly. This challenge is the focus of our current work. 1.1 Contextual effects on complexity In psycholinguistics, the notion of shared common ground is a more precise replacement for the general notion of "context" (Clark, 1996). Common ground is defined as the knowledge that participants in a discourse have and that participants know other participants have, including the current conversational context. A large literature supports the idea that speakers consider referential context and other linguistic common ground in selecting the appropriate expression to refer to a particular physical object (Brennan and Clark, 1996; Metzing and Brennan, 2003; Dale and Reiter, 1995; Sedivy et al., 1999). In principle, Genzel and Charniak's formulation can be considered as capturing the relationship between all of the shared common ground--both linguistic and nonlinguistic--and the predictability of language, even though in the previous work only linguistic information was considered. When there is both linguistic and non-linguistic information passing through the noisy channel, the relevant quantity is not the marginal entropy of only the linguistic stream but the joint entropy of both streams. Let Tj be the linguistic information in part j of the discourse, and Ej be the non-linguistic information in part j . If Cj is the built-up context from the preceding parts {1, · · · , j - 1} of the discourse, then we can break down the joint entropy as: H (Tj , Ej |Cj ) = H (Tj |Ej , Cj ) + H (Ej |Cj ) = H (Tj |Cj ) - I (Tj ; Ej |Cj ) + H (Ej |Cj ) 1588

= H (Tj ) - I (Tj ; Cj ) -I (Tj ; Ej |Cj ) + H (Ej |Cj ) = H (Tj ) - I (Tj ; Ej , Cj ) + H (Ej |Cj ) (2) By the UID hypothesis, we expect the left-hand side of this equation, the information content of each part of the discourse, to be constant. The first term of the right-hand side is the out-of-context entropy of the linguistic information. The second term is the mutual information of the linguistic information and the union of the preceding context plus the current non-linguistic information (the events occurring at the time). The third term is the entropy of the nonlinguistic information, given the preceding context. This breakdown suggests that rational participants in a discourse will exhibit both slow and fast adaptation to context in order to maintain overall constant entropy. As context slowly builds, the mutual information term grows (and the non-linguistic entropy likely shrinks), resulting in the time-based increase in H (Tj ) that previous work has found. In addition, an individual event can have high or low information content given the context, without having a large effect on the mutual information term. To maintain constant entropy, high-information events should be accompanied by low-information linguistic responses, and vice versa. With an operationalization of shared context, we should be able to observe these two types of adaptation directly, not just via the increasing trend shown in previous work (Genzel and Charniak, 2002; Qian and Jaeger, 2012). To test this prediction, we leverage Twitter, a popular microblogging service, to operationalize common ground. Because of its structure, Twitter is an ideal platform for this investigation. One common method of using Twitter is to mark messages with hashtags, which serve as ad-hoc categories, allowing anyone interested in a topic to find the messages relevant to that topic. This strategy is especially used when users are commenting on an external event (e.g. a sporting, media, or political event). We focus here on the World Series of baseball, an annual sporting event with large viewership and a single broadcast stream; in this case, the hashtag is #worldseries. Hashtagged messages are part of a discourse with extremely limited prior linguistic context, as no two tweeters will have seen the same set of tweets. The total shared context with the au-

