Recognizing Social Constructs from Textual Conversation
Somak Aditya and Chitta Baral and Nguyen H. Vo and Joohyung Lee and Jieping Ye, Zaw Naung and Barry Lumpkin and Jenny Hastings Dept. of Computer Science, Arizona State University Richard Scherl Dept. of Computer Science, Monmouth University Dawn M. Sweet Dept. of Psychology, Iowa State University Daniela Inclezan Dept. of Computer Science, Miami University

Abstract
In this paper we present our work on recognizing high level social constructs such as Leadership and Status from textual conversation using an approach that makes use of the background knowledge about social hierarchy and integrates statistical methods and symbolic logic based methods. We use a stratified approach in which we first detect lower level language constructs such as politeness, command and agreement that help us to infer intermediate constructs such as deference, closeness and authority that are observed between the parties engaged in conversation. These intermediate constructs in turn are used to determine the social constructs Leadership and Status. We have implemented this system successfully in both English and Korean languages and achieved considerable accuracy.

chat corpuses (Shaikh et al., 2010), and developing a socio-cultural phenomena model from discourse with a small-scale implementation (Strzalkowski et al., 2010). Other researchers have focused on automatically annotating social behavior in conversation using statistical approaches (Mayfield et al., 2013). The discourse structure of a conversation is modeled as a Hidden Markov Model in (Stolcke, 2000) to determine dialogue acts such as Statement, Question and Agreement. In (Prabhakaran et al., 2012) annotated email threads are presented for facilitating detection of social relations. Among recent works, (Gilbert, 2012) uses linguistic cues to discover workplace hierarchy from emails. The use of phrases to detect language use such as "commands" is motivating. However, due to the lack of logical explanation and robust definition, the effectiveness of this method decreases in the semi-formally moderated Wikipedia community, which has interplay of several different LU s such as command, politeness and informal language. In (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al., 2012), the authors explain how reflection of linguistic styles can shed light on power differentials; though, a social community like Wikipedia might not always conform to the lingustic style coordination assumption. For example, two friends who are coordinating on writing an article may have the same status socially, but difference in their expertise will drive the conversation. Other works such as (Gupte et al., 2011) have concentrated more on other features of the persons involved in social network, than linguistic cues. Also, we feel that, the hierarchy depends on the task or the context. In other words, one person could as-

1

Introduction and Related Works

The traditional information extraction paradigm has seen success in extracting simplistic behaviors or emotions from text. However, to detect high-level social constructs such as leadership or status, we require robustly defined notions about language constructs that cannot always be directly inferred from text. Hence, in this paper we focus on extracting information from text that requires additional background knowledge and inference. There are a few works in this direction, such as (Tari et al., 2010), however our focus in this paper is to extract information pertaining to different social constructs from textual conversation. The earlier research in analyzing conversations includes developing annotated 1293

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1293­1298, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

