particularly effective in recovering the information about the pronunciation of the original word which is often obfuscated by the transliteration into a different language. Our joint model is more effective in utilizing supplemental transliterations than the reranking approach of Bhargava and Kondrak (2011), except on English-to-Japanese. The combination of these two approaches works better than either of them, particularly on the back-transliteration tasks. Finally, the incorporation of a target-lexicon brings additional gains. Back-transliteration from Japanese to English is more challenging than in the forward direction, which was already noted by Knight and Graehl (1997). Most of the names in the dataset originate from English, and Japanese phonotactics require introduction of extra vowels to separate consonant clusters. During back-transliteration, it is often unclear which vowels should be removed and which preserved. Our approach is able to dramatically improve the quality of the results by recovering the original information from multiple supplemental transliterations.

References
Yaser Al-Onaizan and Kevin Knight. 2002. Machine transliteration of names in Arabic texts. In Proceedings of the ACL-02 Workshop on Computational Approaches to Semitic Languages, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA, July. Association for Computational Linguistics. Aditya Bhargava and Grzegorz Kondrak. 2009. Multiple word alignment with Profile Hidden Markov Models. In Proceedings of Human Language Technologies: The 2009 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Companion Volume: Student Research Workshop and Doctoral Consortium, pages 43­48, Boulder, Colorado, June. Association for Computational Linguistics. Aditya Bhargava and Grzegorz Kondrak. 2011. How do you pronounce your name? Improving G2P with transliterations. In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 399­408, Portland, Oregon, USA, June. Association for Computational Linguistics. Aditya Bhargava and Grzegorz Kondrak. 2012. Leveraging supplemental representations for sequential transduction. In Proceedings of the 2012 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 396­406, Montr´ eal, Canada, June. Association for Computational Linguistics. Slaven Bilac and Hozumi Tanaka. 2004. A hybrid backtransliteration system for Japanese. In Proceedings of Coling 2004, pages 597­603, Geneva, Switzerland, Aug 23­Aug 27. COLING. Colin Cherry and Hisami Suzuki. 2009. Discriminative substring decoding for transliteration. In Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1066­1075, Singapore, August. Association for Computational Linguistics. Koby Crammer and Yoram Singer. 2003. Ultraconservative online algorithms for multiclass problems. J. Mach. Learn. Res., 3:951­991, March. Sittichai Jiampojamarn, Grzegorz Kondrak, and Tarek Sherif. 2007. Applying many-to-many alignments and hidden Markov models to letter-to-phoneme conversion. In Human Language Technologies 2007: The Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics; Proceedings of the Main Conference, pages 372­379, Rochester, New York, April. Association for Computational Linguistics.

6

Conclusion

We have investigated the relative importance of the orthographic and phonetic information in the transliteration process. We have proposed a novel joint generation model that directly utilizes both sources of information. We have shown that a generalized joint model is able to achieve substantial improvements over the baseline represented by a stateof-the-art transliteration tool by directly incorporating multiple supplemental transliterations. In the future, we would like to further explore the idea of using interlingual representations for transliteration without parallel training data.

Acknowledgements
We thank Adam St Arnaud for help in improving the final version of this paper. This research was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC).

951

