people think or behave but they are also so powerful that they can ­ allegedly ­ change reality. Spells are often very euphonic (and meaningless) sentences, e.g. "Hocus Pocus". Various psycholinguistic studies addressed the effects of phonetics on the audience in different aspects such as memorability (Wales, 2001; Benczes, 2013) or more specifically advertisement (Leech, 1966; Bergh et al., 1984). There are also computational studies that address the problem of recognizing persuasive sentences according to various syntactic, lexical and semantic features (DanescuNiculescu-Mizil et al., 2012; Tan et al., 2014). However, to the best of our knowledge, the direct impact of phonetic elements on persuasiveness has not been explored in computational settings yet. In this paper, we fill in this gap by conducting a series of analyses and prediction experiments on four datasets representing different aspects of persuasive language to evaluate the importance of a set of phonetic devices (i.e. rhyme, alliteration, homogeneity and plosives) on various forms of persuasiveness. Our experiments show that phonetic features play an important role in the detection of persuasiveness and encode a notion of "melodious language" that operates both within and across datasets.

2

Related Work

In the following, we first revise some NLP studies addressing linguistic features of successful communication. Then, we summarize a selection of studies devoted to the effects of phonetics on persuasion. 2.1 NLP studies on persuasion

Berger and Milkman (2009) focus on a particular form of persuasion by using New York Times articles to examine the relationship between virality (i.e., the tendency of a content to be circulated on the Web) and emotions evoked by the content. They conduct semi-automated sentiment analysis to quantify the affectivity and emotionality of each article. Results suggest a strong relationship between affect and virality, in this case measured as the count of how many people emailed each article. As suggested by the authors, this metric represents a form of "narrowcasting", as opposed to other "broadcasting" actions such as sharing on Twitter. 1484

Another line of research investigates the impact of various textual features on audience reactions. The work by Guerini et al. (2011) correlates several viral phenomena with the wording of a post, while Guerini et al. (2012) show that features such as the readability level of an abstract influence the number of downloads, bookmarking and citations. A particular approach to content virality is presented by Simmons et al. (2011), who explore the impact of different types of modification on memes spreading from one person to another. Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al. (2012) measure a different ingredient of persuasion by analyzing the features of a movie quote that make it "memorable". They compile a corpus consisting of memorable and non-memorable movie quote pairs and conduct a detailed analysis to investigate the lexical and syntactic differences between these pairs. Louis and Nenkova (2013) focus on influential science articles in newspapers by considering characteristics such as readability, description vividness, use of unusual words and affective content. High quality articles (NYT articles appearing in "The Best American Science Writing" anthology) are compared against typical NYT articles. Borghol et al. (2012) investigate how differences in textual description affect the spread of contentcontrolled videos. Lakkaraju et al. (2013) focus on the act of resubmissions (i.e., content that is submitted multiple times with multiple titles to multiple different communities) to understand the extent to which each factor influences the success of a content. Tan et al. (2014) consider how content spreads in an on-line community by pinpointing the effect of wording in terms of content informativeness, generality and affect. Althoff et al. (2014) develop a model that can predict the success of requests for a free pizza gifted from the Reddit community. The authors consider high-level textual features such as politeness, reciprocity, narrative and gratitude. 2.2 Studies on the effects of phonetics

Benczes (2013) states that alliteration and rhyme can be considered as attention-seeking devices as they enhance emphasis. The author also suggests that they are useful for acceptability and long-term retention of original expressions, decrypting their meanings, indicating informality, and breaking the ice be-

