mensional theories by representing emotions (core affects) in three- or two-dimensional space: arousal, valence, and sometimes dominance (Russell, 2003). Although psychological evidence show that words or any other events are emotionally perceived in more than one dimension (Barrett, 2006; Russell, 2003), multi-dimensional models have rarely been used in sentiment analysis. In sentiment analysis research, two main machine learning (ML) methods are used: supervised learning or unsupervised learning methods. Supervised learning methods generally use the occurrence frequencies of words that indicate opinion/sentiment and then classify these occurrences as either positive or negative using one of the common classification methods (e.g., Maximum Entropy, support vector machine (SVM)). Many combinations of features have been tried, such as part-of-speech tagging, ngrams, term weighting, sentiment lexicons, term presence, and syntactic dependencies (Pang et al., 2002; Lin and He, 2009). In contrast, unsupervised learning approaches often determine the semantic orientation (SO) of a sentence or document by calculating the difference between the point-wise mutual information (PMI) (Church and Hanks, 1990) for its phrases or words with sentiment seeds (Turney and Littman, 2002; Turney, 2002). Other approaches have built more-structured models, augmenting the standard bag-of-words technique with appraisal groups, which are represented as sets of attribute values in a semantic taxonomy (Whitelaw et al., 2005) or considering the interaction between words by using a tree structured CRF based on (Nakagawa et al., 2010). Another study has taken the interaction between words into account by utilizing the compositional formal semantic models based on Frege's principle (Frege, 1892). A framework is proposed in (Coecke et al., 2010) in which a sentence vector is a function of the Kronecker product of its words. This approach was evaluated on several datasets and showed promising results and improvement over non-compositional approaches (Grefenstette et al., 2010; Grefenstette and Sadrzadeh, 2011; Mitchell and Lapata, 2008). Much sentiment analysis work has focused on extracting emotions from the writer's perspective; only several recent studies have tackled the problem of predicting readers' sentiments. Both (Lin et 1550

al., 2008) and (Yang et al., 2009) used bag-of-words and linguistic features to classify Chinese news articles (Yahoo!-Kimo news) into one of the user emotional ratings (happy, sad, surprise, etc.). Another study presents a multi-label classification approach that uses words' polarity, and semantic frame features to classify news article into categorical emotions (Bhowmick, 2009). As a part of the SemEval2007 task, a number of approaches have been proposed to binary-classify news headlines into positive or negative sentiment (Strapparava and Mihalcea, 2007; Katz et al., 2007; Chaumartin, 2007).

3
3.1

ACT for Sentiment Analysis
Background

Affect Control theory (ACT) is a new version of symbolic interactionism (Mead, 1938) created by David Heise (Heise, 1987). ACT proposes that individuals process gestures (including words or events) as symbols or concepts shared among groups of people or culture. These fundamental meanings or `fundamental sentiments' are defined in a threedimensional space of EPA profile. ACT also proposes that individuals try to maintain the transient impressions, which are generated from the interactions of the events' elements (subject-verb-object), close to the fundamental sentiments in the EPA space. ACT models emotions as arising because of the differences between fundamental sentiments and transient impressions. For example, a person who is powerful but is made to feel powerless will feel "angry". ACT equations (i.e., impression formation equations) are obtained through empirical studies, and they model the process by which the fundamental sentiments of elements in the events are combined to generate a transient impression. The affective meanings in ACT consist of three components: Evaluation (good versus bad); Potency (powerful versus powerless); and Activity (lively versus inactive). Each affective meaning is measured on a scale from -4.3 (infinitely bad, powerless, or inactive) to +4.3 (infinitely good, powerful, or lively). These meanings are attached to concepts corresponding to identities, behaviors, settings, and modifiers. According to ACT, people from the same cultures and gender share the same fundamental sentiments (EPA) about world concepts (Berger and

