Lachmannian Archetype Reconstruction for Ancient Manuscript Corpora
Armin Hoenen Goethe University Robert- Mayer Strasse 10 60486 Frankfurt, Germany hoenen@em.uni-frankfurt.de

Abstract
Two goals are targeted by computer philology for ancient manuscript corpora: firstly, making an edition, that is roughly speaking one text version representing the whole corpus, which contains variety induced through copy errors and other processes and secondly, producing a stemma. A stemma is a graphbased visualization of the copy history with manuscripts as nodes and copy events as edges. Its root, the so-called archetype, is the supposed original text or urtext from which all subsequent copies are made. Our main contribution is to present one of the first computational approaches to automatic archetype reconstruction and to introduce the first textbased evaluation for automatically produced archetypes. We compare a philologically generated archetype with one generated by bioinformatic software.

1

Introduction

In philology, oftentimes more than one single manuscript of the same tradition (that is, the same text) has survived. These manuscripts often differ in their wording in various places since copy errors, corrections, and other processes have led to deviation from the original text. This causes two problems: uncertainty about the original wording and uncertainty about which manuscript has been copied from which other. The reconstruction of the copy history of manuscript texts is largely similar to that of DNA, which is why phylogenetic approaches have been adopted (Robinson and O'Hara, 1996; Robinson et 1209

al., 1998; van Reenen et al., 1996; van Reenen et al., 2004; Spencer et al., 2004; Roos and Heikkil¨ a, 2009; Roelli and Bachmann, 2010; Andrews and Mac´ e, 2013). However, the main goal of the philological work on ancient manuscripts is not the reconstruction of the copy history but compiling an edition of a historical text. This entails reducing the variation encountered so that one single main text as the prototypical representation of the manuscript corpus emerges. Ideally, this text is believed to be the author's original or closest possible to it. Two model approaches to making an edition are most widespread. The earlier one by Lachmann (see for instance Lachmann (1853)) opts for reconstructing an urtext actively, that is if needed by means of emendation, which refers to inferring the original (authorial) wording from the extant variants even if the so-inferred form is not itself extant and thus not attested in any of the manuscripts. The later approach after B´ edier (see for instance B´ edier (1928)) bases the edition directly on the text of the best available manuscript. In this paper, we will present a first automatic implementation of the earlier approach. Additionally, an algorithm for evaluation of a so-reconstructed text will be presented and applied to artificial benchmark data sets (gold standard). First, we will introduce the data sets. Then, two methods, rulebased (using philological principles) and statistical (likelihood-based using bio-informatic software) will be explained in detail before the results are being presented, followed by a general discussion, a field specific discussion, and a conclusion and outlook.

Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1209­1214, Denver, Colorado, May 31 ­ June 5, 2015. c 2015 Association for Computational Linguistics

