cused on inducing simple event types, consisting of single words (e.g., "buy-own") or fixed expressions, and are hard to extend to include rich features (e.g., order-based and pattern-based features). Furthermore, measuring recall without annotated data is notoriously difficult, and evaluation is often precisionbased or extrinsic. We take a graph-based structured prediction approach to the task, motivated by the flexibility it allows in incorporating various feature sets and constraints. We use an edge-factored model, which decomposes over the edges in the graph of events comprising the recipe (§4). We estimate the model using the structured perceptron algorithm. We compare the structured perceptron approach to an approximate greedy baseline and to a locally normalized model reminiscent of common approaches for order learning, obtaining superior results (§8). The learning algorithm is of potential use in other ordering tasks such as machine translation reordering (Tromble and Eisner, 2009). We focus on domains in which the order of events in the text is aligned with their temporal order. By doing so we avoid the costly and error-prone manual annotation of temporal relations by using the textual order of recipes to approximate their temporal order.1 Specifically, we address the cooking recipes domain, which we motivate in §2. In summary, the contribution of this paper is three-fold: (1) we explore the task of lexical event ordering and means for its evaluation; (2) we present an edge-factored model for the task, and show it can be used to predict the order of events well (77.7% according to standard measures for ordering evaluation); (3) we present a method for extracting events and create a dataset of ordered events using recipes extracted from the web.

2

Related Work

Temporal semantics is receiving increasing attention in recent years. Lexical features are in frequent use and rely in most part on external resources which are either manually compiled or automatically induced. The line of work most closely related to ours focuses on inducing lexical relations between
See Cassidy et al. (2014) for a discussion of inter-annotator agreement in TimeML-based schemes.
1

event types. Most work has been unsupervised, often using pattern-based approaches relying on manually crafted (Chklovski and Pantel, 2004) or induced patterns (Davidov et al., 2007), that correlate with temporal relations (e.g., temporal discourse connectives). Talukdar et al. (2012) uses the textual order of events in Wikipedia biographical articles to induce lexical information. We use both textual order and discourse connectives to define our feature set, and explore a setting which allows for the straightforward incorporation of additional features. Chambers and Jurafsky (2008b; 2009) addressed the unsupervised induction of partially ordered event chains (or schema) in the news domain, centered around a common protagonist. One of their evaluation scenarios tackles a binary classification related to event ordering, and seeks to distinguish ordered sets of events from randomly permuted ones, yielding an accuracy of 75%. Manshadi et al. (2008) used language models to learn event sequences and conducted a similar evaluation on weblogs with about 65% accuracy. The classification task we explore here is considerably more complex (see §8). The task of script knowledge induction has been frequently addressed in recent years. Balasubramanian et al. (2013) and Pichotta and Mooney (2014) extended Chambers and Jurafsky's model to include events that have multiple arguments. Jans et al. (2012) use skip-grams to capture event-event relations between not necessarily consecutive events. Regneri et al. (2010) constructed a temporal lexical knowledge base through crowd-sourcing. Their approach is appealing as it greatly reduces the costs incurred by manual annotation and can potentially be used in conjunction with lexical information obtained from raw text. Modi and Titov (2014) jointly learns the stereotypical order of events and their distributional representation, in order to capture paraphrased instances of the same event type. Frermann et al. (2014) models the joint task of inducing event paraphrases and their order using a Bayesian framework. All latter three works evaluated their induced temporal ordering knowledge on a binary prediction of whether a temporal relation between a pair of (not necessarily related) events holds, and not on the prediction of a complete permutation given an unordered event set as in this work. Their evaluation was conducted on 30 event pairs manually an-

1162

