6

Conclusion

We proposed a series of approaches to social media user geolocation based on: (1) text-based analysis using logistic regression with regularisation; (2) network-based analysis using label propagation; and (3) a hybrid method based on network-based label propagation, and back-off to text-based analysis for disconnected users. We achieve state-of-the-art results over three pre-existing Twitter datasets, and find that, overall, the hybrid method is superior to the two component methods.The LP-LR method is a hybrid approach that uses the LR predictions as priors. It is not simply a backoff from network information to textual information in the sense that it propagates the LR geolocations through the network. That is, if a test node is disconnected from the training nodes but still has connections to other test nodes, the geolocation of the node is adjusted and propagated through the network. It is possible to add extra nodes to the graph after applying the algorithm and to geolocate only these nodes efficiently, although this approach is potentially less accurate than inferencing over the full graph from scratch. Label propagation algorithms such as Modified Adsorption (Talukdar and Crammer, 2009) allow for different levels of influence between prior/known labels and propagated label distributions. These algorithms require a discretised output space for label propagation, while LP can work directly on continuous data. We leave label propagation over discritised output and allowing different influence levels between prior and propagated label distributions to future work. There is no clear consensus on whether text- or network-based methods are empirically superior at the user geolocation task. Our results show that the network-based method (LP) is more robust than the text-based (LR) method as it requires a smaller number of hyper-parameters, uses less memory and computing resources, converges much faster and geolocates not only test users but all mentioned users. The drawback of LP is that it fails to geolocate disconnected test users. So for connected nodes ­ the majority of test nodes in all our datasets ­ LP is more robust than LR. Text-based methods are very sensitive to the regularisation settings and the types of textual features. That said, with thorough param1366

eter tuning, they might outperform network-based method in terms of accuracy. In future work, we hope to look at different types of network information for label propagation, more precise propagation methods to deal with non-local interactions, and also efficient ways of utilising both textual and network information in a joint model. Acknowledgements We thank the anonymous reviewers for their insightful comments and valuable suggestions. This work was funded in part by the Australian Research Council.

References
Amr Ahmed, Liangjie Hong, and Alexander J Smola. 2013. Hierarchical geographical modeling of user locations from social media posts. In Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on World Wide Web, pages 25­36. Einat Amitay, Nadav Har'El, Ron Sivan, and Aya Soffer. 2004. Web-a-where: geotagging web content. In Proceedings of the 27th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 273­280. Zhiyuan Cheng, James Caverlee, and Kyumin Lee. 2010. You are where you tweet: a content-based approach to geo-locating Twitter users. In Proceedings of the 19th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, pages 759­768. Paul Earle, Michelle Guy, Richard Buckmaster, Chris Ostrum, Scott Horvath, and Amy Vaughan. 2010. OMG earthquake! can Twitter improve earthquake response? Seismological Research Letters, 81(2):246­251. Jacob Eisenstein, Brendan O'Connor, Noah A Smith, and Eric P Xing. 2010. A latent variable model for geographic lexical variation. In Proceedings of the 2010 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1277­1287. Bo Han, Timothy Baldwin, and Paul Cook. 2012. Geolocation prediction in social media data by finding location indicative words. Proceedings of COLING 2012: Technical Papers, pages 1045­1062. Bo Han, Paul Cook, and Timothy Baldwin. 2014. Textbased Twitter user geolocation prediction. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research (JAIR), 49:451­500. David Jurgens. 2013. That's what friends are for: Inferring location in online social media platforms based on social relationships. In Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM 2013), pages 273­282.

