year but the bulava nuclear-armed missile developed to equip the submarine has failed tests and the deployment prospects are uncertain.", AMR labels "Yuri dolgoruky" as a product instead of a person. We manually mapped AMR entity types to equivalent DBpedia types to inform type matching restrictions 5 . However, to make our context comparison algorithm less dependent on the quality of this mapping, and on automatic AMR name type assignment, we add a mention's type to its collaborators 6 . In future work we plan to investigate the effects of different type matching techniques, varying degrees of strictness. 3.2 Semantic Roles

cause, concession, condition, consist-of, extent, part, purpose, degree, manner, medium, instrument, ord, poss, quant, subevent, subset, topic. 3.3 Background Time and Location AMR provides rich temporal and spatial information about entities and events. Types instantiated in AMR include time, year, month, day, source, destination, path and location. We exploit time and location entities as collaborators for entity mentions when they each play a role in the same predicate. For example, in the following post, the time role of the "die-01" event is "2008": "I just Read of Clark's death in 2008". We can link "Clark" to Arthur C Clark in the KB, which contains the triple: Arthur C Clark, date-of-death, 2008-03-19 (see Section 4). Similarly, it's very challenging to link the abbreviation "BMKG", in the following sentence, to the correct target entity Indonesian Agency for Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics, whose headquarters are listed as Jakarta in the KB: "It keeps on shaking. Jakarta BMKG spokesman Mujuhidin said". Here, "Jakarta" is added as a collaborator of "BMKG" since AMR labels it as the location of the organization, which facilitates the correct link because in DBpedia Jakarta is listed as its headquarter. Authors often assume that readers will infer implicit temporal information about events. In fact, half of the events extracted by information extraction (IE) systems lack time arguments (Ji et al., 2009). Therefore if an AMR parse includes no time information, we use the document creation time as an additional collaborator for mention in question. For example, knowing the document creation time "2005-06-05" can help us link "Hsiung Feng" in the following sentence "The BBC reported that Taiwan has successfully test fired the Hsiung Feng, its first cruise missile." to Hsiung Feng IIE, which was deployed in 2005. Similarly, we include document creation location as a global collaborator. 3.4 Coreference For linking purposes, we treat a coreferential chain of mentions as a single "mention". In doing so, the collaborator set for the entire chain is computed as the union over all of the chain's mentions' collabo-

AMR defines core roles based on the OntoNotes (Hovy et al., 2006) semantic role layer. Each predicate is associated with a sense and frame description. If a target entity mention m and a context entity mention n are both playing core roles for the same predicate, we consider n as a collaborator of m. Consider the following post: "Did Palin apologize to Giffords? He needs to conduct a beer summit between Palin and NBC.". We add "Giffords" and "NBC" as collaborators of "Palin", because they play core roles in both the "apologize-01" and "meet-03" events. AMR defines new core semantic roles which did not exist in PropBank (Palmer et al., 2005), NomBank (Meyers et al., 2004), or Ontonotes (Hovy et al., 2006). Intuitively, the following special roles should provide discriminative collaborators: · The ARG2 role of the have-org-role-91 frame indicates the title held by an entity (ARG0), such as President and Governor, within a particular organization (ARG1). · ARG2 and ARG3 of have-rel-role-91 are used to describe two related entities of the same type, such as family members. AMR defines a rich set of general semantic relations through non-core semantic roles. We choose the following subset of non-core roles to provide collaborators for entity mentions: domain, mod,
The mapping from three main types and AMR entity types to Dbpedia types is at: nlp.cs.rpi.edu/amrel/dbtype.txt 6 A more strict approach might disallow type mismatches between entity mentions and their target KB entities outright.
5

1133

