text" is identified as a negative ESE annotation in the MPQA 2.0 supports this as well. There is a difference between ESE and attitude eTarget annotations. Since ESE annotations pinpoint specific wording used to express subjectivity, ESE eTargets are annotated more narrowly than attitude eTargets. For ESEs, the eTargets are the entities and events that are directly evaluated by the expression, while, for attitudes, the eTargets include all entities and events toward which the attitude holds (as we saw in the examples above). For example: Ex(5) ... because the hard-line wing in the US administration comprising Vice President Dick Cheney ... DS: (entire sentence) nested-source: w attitude: hard-line attitude-type: sentiment-negative target: wing in the .. Dick Cheney eTarget : wing, Cheney ESE: hard-line wing nested-source: w polarity: negative eTarget : wing The ESE has only one eTarget, "wing," while the attitude has two: "wing" and "Cheney." 2.2 MPQA 3.0 Annotation Scheme

target span. An additional slot new-eTarget-link is to be filled with a list of ids of other eTargets. Each eTarget of an ESE has two slots, one for the eTarget id, and one for an attribute, isReferedInSpan (yes, or no). The value is yes if the eTarget is referred to in the ESE span.

3

Agreement Study

We developed the manual via iterative annotation, discussion, and revision. Once the manual was developed, we participated in an agreement study. For the formal agreement study, one document was randomly selected from each of the four topics of the OPQA subset (Stoyanov et al., 2005) of the MPQA corpus. They were not any of the documents used to develop the manual. We then independently annotated the four documents. There are 292 eTargets in the four documents in total. To evaluate the results, the same agreement measure is used for both attitude and ESE eTargets. Given an attitude or ESE, let set A be the set of eTargets annotated by annotator X , and set B be the set of eTargets annotated by annotator Y . Following (Wilson and Wiebe, 2003; Johansson and Moschitti, 2013), which treat each set A and B in turn as the gold-standard, we calculate the average F-measure, denoted agr(A, B ). The agr(A, B ) is 0.82 on average over the four documents, showing good agreement: agr(A, B ) = (|A  B |/|B | + |A  B |/|A|)/2.

An eTarget is an entity or event that is the target of a sentiment (identified in MPQA 2.0 by a sentiment attitude or polar ESE span). The eTarget annotation is anchored to the head word of the NP or VP that refers to the entity or event, and has three slots: id (unique within the document), isNegated (yes or no), and type (entity or event; note that event includes both states and events). The isNegated = yes option is for the case where the eTarget is the negation of the event referred to by the head word, for example, when the source is positive toward someone not doing something. An attitude has one or more target-span annotations in MPQA 2.0. We provide two slots for the k th target annotation. k-targetSpan shows the k th target span. k-eTarget-link is to be filled with a list of ids of eTargets whose text anchors are within the k th 1326

4

Disagreement Analysis

One issue is whether an attitude toward an entity or event is indeed communicated in the sentence. Consider this sentence: "President Mugabe's reelection has been praised by OAU." The OAU is positive toward "reelection," which is an eTarget both annotators mark. The question is whether it is also communicated in this sentence that the OAU is also positive toward "Mugabe." X did not mark Mugabe as an eTarget, whereas Y did. During the subsequent discussion, X now agrees that it should be marked. In general, X was using what we now consider to be a too conservative policy. Overall, 29% of all disagreements are of this type of borderline case. 8% of the disagreements arise when there are multiple attitudes with overlapping spans, the same source, the same polarity, but different targets and

