tween an audience and a speaker. Therefore, these devices are commonly used in original metaphorical and metonymical compounds. According to Leech (1966), phonetic devices such as rhyme and alliteration are systematically exploited by advertisers to achieve memorability. Similarly, Wales (2001) underlines the effectiveness of alliteration and rhyme on emphasis and memorability of an expression. The relation between the usage of plosives (i.e., consonants in which the vocal tract is blocked so that all airflow ceases, such as "p", "t" or "k") and memorability has also been investigated. According to the study carried out by Bergh et al. (1984) brand names starting with plosive sounds are recalled and recognized more than the ones starting with other ¨ sounds. Ozbal et al. (2012) carry out an analysis of brand names and discover that plosives are very commonly used. Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al. (2012), whom we previously mentioned, carry out an auxiliary analysis and observe the differences in letter and sound distribution (e.g. usage of labials or front vowels, back sounds, coordinating conjunctions) of memorable and non-memorable quotes. ¨ Ozbal et al. (2013) propose a phonetic scorer for creative sentence generation such that generated sentences can contain various phonetic features including alliteration, rhyme and plosive sounds. The authors evaluate the proposed model on automatic ¨ slogan generation. In a more recent work (Ozbal et al., 2014), they enforce the existence of these features in the sentences that are automatically generated for second language learning to introduce hooks to echoic memory.

namely plosives, alliteration, rhyme and homogeneity, which can easily be modeled by observing the distribution of specific classes of phonemes within the sentence. The plosive score is calculated as the ratio of the number of plosive sounds in a sentence to the overall number of phonemes. For both alliteration and rhyme scorers, we provide a na¨ ive implementation that does not consider stresses or syllables, but only counts the number of repeated sounds at the beginning or end of words in the sentence. The alliteration score is calculated as the number of repeated phonetic prefixes in a sentence normalized by the total number of phonemes. Similarly, the rhyme score is calculated as the ratio of the number of repeated phonetic endings in a sentence to the total number of phonemes. Lastly, the homogeneity scorer simply calculates the degree of homogeneity in terms of phonemes used in a sentence independently from their positions. If we let dph be the count of distinct phonemes and tph be the total count of phonemes in a sentence, then the homogeneity score is calculated as 1 - (dph /tph ).

4

Dataset

3

Phonetic Scorer

For the design of the phonetic features, we were ¨ mostly inspired by the work of Ozbal et al. (2013), who built and used three phonetic scorers for creative sentence generation. Similarly to this work, all the phonetic features that we used are based on the phonetic representation of English words of the Carnegie Mellon University pronouncing dictionary1 . We selected four classes of phonetic devices,
The CMU pronunciation dictionary is freely available at http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/cgi-bin/ cmudict. We have used version 0.7a in our implementation.
1

In this section, we describe the four datasets we used to conduct our analyses and experiments. As we mentioned previously, the definition of persuasion is a debated topic and it can comprise distinct strategies or facets. For this reason, we experimented with datasets where at least one ingredient is clearly in the equation. To explore the effects of wording and euphonics on persuasion, the datasets were built in a controlled setting (topic, author, sentence length) to avoid confounding factors such as author or topic popularity, by following the procedure described in (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al., 2012; Tan et al., 2014). In addition, these datasets comprise short texts (mostly single sentences) to focus on surface realization of persuasion, where strategic planning ­ which might act as a confounding factor ­ plays a minor role. The idea of using controlled experiments (usually in an A/B test setting) to study persuasive communication can be traced back at least to Hovland et al. (1953). While two of these datasets (Twitter and Movies) were already available, the other two (CORPS and Slogans) were collected by following the methodology proposed in the first two as

1485

